1991	I have my pocket calculator and there are always things which need doing for which there is no need for my big .
1991	At home though he can plug himself in to other  all over the world.
0000	Unlike building model aeroplanes or playing games, you can consume the finished product, which works out at a cost of 10p a pint.
1991	Hotels whose systems can interface automatically with Bravo pay lower rates.
1991	THORN EMI Software, the services division of the electronics and entertainment group, has been bought out by its staff and management in an £82m deal and has taken a new name.
1991	With turnover of £117m last year, the company accounted for only about 5% of Thorn EMI sales, but Data Sciences is number two in the UK services league.
1991	The information already held on for regular operations is only yielding a fraction of its true potential — potential to contribute directly to the bottom line, if analysed with a marketing strategy in mind.
1991	Use them to the full to guarantee the effective use of your system by ensuring staff are aware of its potential.
1991	BUYING a system for a single hotel or restaurant, or for a chain of units, involves far more than ordering and taking delivery of powerful foxes loaded with clever software.
1991	How successful a installation is will depend largely on how clearly the customer and the supplier have defined, at the outset, what the system is supposed to achieve.
1991	As Checkout Systems' Tim Webb points out, people's expectations of technology often exceed the 's remit.
1991	Potentially the customer holds the strong cards at this stage of the discussion: the hotelier or restaurateur knows what his business problems are and knows what the system is going to have to achieve — and the potential buyer, who has thought this through before the supplier appears, is more likely to end up with the right system.
1991	systems are often under-exploited, largely because the people using the systems are not aware of its possibilities.
1991	The system will only bring the returns that the company expects if the people using it are using the system fully, which can be guaranteed through investment in adequate training.
1991	‘It must also be noted that the systems generate information and it is how this information is used that influences the returns on the total package.
1991	The onus is on the company to ensure that staff are making intelligent decisions on the information that the system provides and this comes from in-house training.’
1991	Welcome Systems' managing partner Nick Chudley echoes this view: ‘Sadly, and we believe mistakenly, some customers decide to cut back on training as an economy measure.
1991	THERE'S a saying in the industry: ‘If in doubt, press a few keys; if that doesn't work, ask a colleague; if in deep trouble, consult the manual.’
1991	There is some justification for this caricature of the typical user — though customers' critics might ask themselves first how well-written the manuals are, before complaining that people never read them.
1991	‘Users must also be encouraged to recognise the difference between a reception problem and a problem.
1991	Another way in which users can help suppliers to help them is to appoint a system manager.
1991	This is a controversial issue: hoteliers and restaurateurs are supposed to be running hotels and restaurants, after all, not managing systems.
1991	If the independent business has one staff member who regularly uses the equipment and sufficiently interested to study the manuals, that person will, given encouragement, build up expertise which can usefully be passed on.
1991	Backing up data is one of the basics of any system.
1991	YOUR has just broken down.
1991	A chef would never leave a kitchen with food out on the worktops at the end of the day, and front desk is always tidied at the end of a shift, but how many managers do more than simply turn off the and go home at the end of a session with their spreadsheet or word processor?
1991	Everything stored in the memory of a can be copied on to removable diskettes.
1991	Hundreds of customers' details can be stored on one diskette, as can whole spreadsheets, and the diskettes can then be kept safely in a secure place away from the .
1991	If anything happened to the and it proved impossible to get at the data inside, you could go to your back-up diskettes and simply copy the data back into the when it had been repaired, or replaced, or put it onto another .
1991	This is true of all , whatever make, size or cost and irrespective of the programs you run on your machine.
1991	The actual machine is replaceable, as are the programs which run on it — but your data is unique and cannot simply be replaced by the local shop.
1991	The most widespread type of in small businesses — the IBM compatible PC — can back up in several ways.
1991	As data security is such a fundamental issue for all users, programs which enable back-ups to be taken are supplied with each PC.
1991	These programs are part of the operating system — the set of commands which come with the and allow you to communicate with it.
1991	The manuals which come with the will explain how to use them.
1991	A browse through any of the magazines will indicate several possibilities, and many companies will supply a demonstration version to try out before you commit to a purchase.
1991	Even better, go down to your local shop and ask them to show you several different ways to back-up, then choose the one which seems easiest.
1991	This is a device similar to a normal cassette recorder but which takes bigger tape cassettes, each of which can hold all the data and programs on your .
1991	See a dealer for more advice and insist on seeing a demonstration before you buy.
1991	Whether you go it alone, ask the shop expert or persuade a friend who knows about to help you, it is essential to set up a regular data back-up system.
1991	As part of the whole process of computerising its information systems, Catering & Allied is making neat use of the Psion Organiser II alongside personal loaded with the Caterdata software from TIS.
1991	Operations manager Siobhan Hunter, who is responsible for the Morgan Grenfell contract, says: ‘We've been looking at for the past 18 months, and we went for Caterdata, having seen it in action at BE Services, the in-house caterer at the Bank of England.’
1991	Deputy unit manager Phil Brown, who has taken responsibility for the system, says: ‘We can do the stocktake in about half a day with the Psion Organiser.
1991	It's a cyclical process: when the butcher delivers to the kitchens at Morgan Grenfell, Brown enters the details from the delivery note on the in his office.
1991	However, it is one thing to scan a screen in the catering office: it's quite another to do stocktaking — typically this involves carrying a notebook around the various larders and coldrooms.
1991	Catering & Allied came up with a novel solution: copy the stock file on to one of the two 128k data packs which fit into the back of a Psion Organiser, update that file ‘on the hoof’; and copy the updated file back to the desktop .
1991	Brown, who went on a one-day course at TIS before coming back and installing the system at Morgan Grenfell, is now teaching colleagues to use it, including unit manager Karen Goate, ‘used to frighten me, but not now,’ she says.
1991	INTEREST in portable of all kinds has been stimulated by the Gulf War, when everything from tanks and armoured vehicles to airmen's flying helmets were fitted with a range of increasingly smaller and more rugged technology.
1991	Typical of these is the GRiDPad, a ruggedly built, pen-operated made by GRiD Systems.
1991	Database files can be copied from the user's main system to the GRiDPad — a process which is slow currently, but will get faster — and updated in the field.
1991	This time it was just a error they thought — apparently a fairly common occurrence when there's been some form of disruption to a claim.
1991	‘They think it's a error — but they're still checking on it.’
1991	For example, it can be argued the expansion into amalgamated police units has enlarged the organization to a point where it is no longer accessible to the man in the street; alternatively, it may be that the use of a centralized and complex technical aids has alienated the public even at the same time they are increasingly fed a diet of violent news snippets which reinforce a fear of crime and generate another ‘folk devil’ of criminal menace, which demands the impossible: a policeman on every corner.
1991	Institutions have the pathetic megalomania of the whose whole vision of the world is its own programme.
1991	I am in Corporate Planning at HQ, as part of a department which incorporates Research, Development and Communications.
1991	I took a look inside: printouts of columns of figures.
1991	During the next two days I advised on industrial relations problems in catering, and property services and sent back three more folders of work to my line manager.
1991	The problem for the associationalist is exactly mirrored in those theories of thought and mind inspired by and artificial intelligence.
1991	The human mind — which, from this viewpoint, is the brain — is said to work on the same plan as a , with operations being carried out on physical symbols.
1991	Digital work on this principle.
1991	have a machine-code into which instructions on the program are translated, a code which is a kind of computational ‘bottom line’— a language that does not require a further interpretive step because it comes complete with its own interpretation.
1991	Now the machine-code analogy works well only so long as we forget that all a program has to do is run .
1991	Robot arms driven by digital can carry out instructions to, say, ‘put a pyramid on the big block’ even if successful completion of the instructions means first removing a small block from the big one.
1991	This is a very sophisticated procedure, but only in the most metaphorical sense would we want to say that the has a theory of the external world.
1991	Well how do I know that this does not have a theory of the external world?
1991	Well, I think that there is an argument of sorts for saying that a of the kind described does not have a theory of the external world, does not have mental states which refer, and does not therefore have thoughts in any significant sense.
1991	The which can move blocks around to instructions represents, in contrast, a few facts and does what it can with them.
1991	The increasing power and sophistication of is advancing the brain sciences in two ways.
1991	But many of the techniques which are enabling us to exploit are not new.
1991	By using to integrate the information from a large number of different viewpoints round the skull, it is possible to visualize the appearance of a slice through the brain and build up a full three-dimensional image.
1991	And there has been a remarkable interchange of ideas between computational theorists and neuroscientists, in which attempts to create models of neural function have not only generated powerful new tools for the interpreting of the brain but have also fed back into theory and practice.
1991	With the advent of digital and the development of information theory in the 1940s and 1950s, this job was interpreted as being that of finding out how the nervous system ‘encoded’ reality in a digital form.
1991	No one outside of the wilder sects of the artificial intelligence fraternity would suggest that a device that translated morse into natural language characters on the screen of a was releasing the consciousness implicit in morse.
1991	Today, kids are watching TV, listening to headphones or playing with .
1990	The whole process was greatly helped by the much more widespread availability of .
1991	If these definitions were put through a they would list five kinds of jumps, twenty-three pas de bourrée , seven glissades and so on.
0000	CAMRA Membership No. (for office use only)
1991	Most basic contents policies cover accidents to mirrors and fixed glass in furniture and some even include TVs, videos, satellite dishes, home and audio equipment.
1992	Andrew was determined to pursue a career.
1991	Rosalie Zobel, deputy director of the Esprit projects told EW + WW that Mips Systems, Sun, Motorola, DEC and IBM have all been invited to preliminary OMI meetings.
1991	Parsytec intends to use the same basic design of a 1.6Gflop processing unit as a building block for systems executing up to 400Gflops. the largest on sale now can perform tens of Gflops.
1991	Parsytec will sell the single processing unit, about the size of two briefcases, and larger made up of different configurations of the blocks.
1991	This is a project aimed at building a which can process one million floating point operations per second.
1991	Parsytec has received assurances from Inmos that it will be able to buy the transputer in large enough numbers to build the .
1991	The working version of the machine, built to celebrate the bicentenary of the mathematician's birth, will be moved into the new Information Age gallery which will replace the current gallery.
1991	‘We hope for support from telecomms as well as companies and users’.
1991	Display Technologies, a Toshiba-IBM joint venture, has completed construction of its manufacturing plant in Himeji and has started production of large size, LCDs for terminals.
1991	The fact is that in the world of switch-mode power supplies (and it is a very large world indeed, covering PCB, mainframe , electronic telephone exchanges, military equipment, aerospace, and more besides) it is rare to come across a Cuk converter.
1991	The application of graphics is wide — from management pie-charts to mapping Mars.
1991	To save or transfer images from art systems, scanners, or acquired from a camera;
1991	To communicate between networked graphical user interfaces (GUIs) and host .
1991	aided design (cad) systems are the draughtsman's equivalent of a word processor.
1991	Graphics Metafile (CGM): this became an ansi standard in 1986.
1991	There are various methods which can be used for  files (see box ‘Getting quarts into pint pots’).
1991	In the early days of , printers were basically electrically controlled typewriters.
1991	The flexibility of such printers makes desk top publishing possible, and can also internationalise printout with non Latin fonts, such as Japanese characters.
1991	A final major application of graphical interchange is in the area of networked systems.
1991	Early were boxes with ports for terminals.
1991	When personal became popular (ie., cheap) the fact that the processor was close to the screen was rapidly exploited by application software to give the user a much more dynamic look and feel.
1991	Using an 8-bit sound sampler board with Atari, Archimedes or Amiga for sound analysis in physics and biology requires a sample rate of at least twice the highest signal frequency — around 20kHz.
1991	General Panther with TMS320C30 processor can turn the PC into a 33Mflop workstation.
1991	The car is part of a driving simulator, which uses a Philips video disc player, in conjunction with an Acorn Archimedes A440 , to project video images onto a screen.
1991	It should also be possible to use the screen as a kind of operator panel, allowing the user of the system to modify, in real time, the interpolation points.
1991	As a divider (Fig.5), the Z input becomes the numerator, the denominator being at X. Gain is, again, adjustable by the use of an attenuator between output and Y2, a technique that is used to advantage in the percentage in Fig. 6, which gives the percentage deviation of A against B on a scale of 1 V per 1%.
1991	Percentage to give percentage variation of one input against the other.
1991	From Compass to .
1991	Talent
1989	The only in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games.
1989	In Mr Dobbs's words, a telecottage is ‘a room in a village filled with communications that can be used by local people to learn and work’.
1989	People mustn't think that because there's a , they've got to think of a use for it.’
1989	Once people overcome their fears about and begin to use them in telecottages, they acquire their own equipment.
1989	Thermocouples at critical points in each fridge or other piece of equipment will show, through a print-out, how the temperature varies inside it.
1989	Headland is buying Multisoft, a software group which makes business accounting systems designed for the personal market.
1989	Headland believes Multisoft's experience, especially in open systems — of different makes that integrate with each other— can be married with systems developed by Mega, Headland's own accounting software house which produces larger systems sold directly to clients.
1989	Groupe Bull buys Zenith
1989	GROUPE BULL, the French company, has launched itself into the personal market with the $635m acquisition of Zenith Group of the US, writes Mary Fagan.
1989	Zenith , part of Zenith Electronics Corporation, is a manufacturer of IBM personal ‘clones’ and is an important player in the market for portable .
1989	But Zenith recently announced second quarter losses due to the strong dollar, high interest charges, and squeezed margins in the sector.
1989	There was a fault on the governing the plant, said Mr Wheeler, and the fire had automatically shut down.
1989	He and nine accomplices were said to have hacked into a bank's and gained access to the Treasury's accounts.
1989	Kevin Drummond QC, for the prosecution, said Shooter had hatched the elaborate plot on his home .
1989	And at the press desk the churns them out, photograph and all.
1989	Intel, with a 1988 turnover of more than $2.8bn, is the world's fifth largest manufacturer of semi conductors for the industry.
1989	These are used in machines from desktop to super .
1989	About 70 per cent of personal worldwide incorporate parts made by Intel, which employs 20,000.
1989	An initial Ir £20m is to be invested in the plant at Leixit in County Kildare, which in the first phase will produce systems.
1989	The Irish Industry Minister, Des O'Malley, stressed that a key factor in winning the project had been availability of scientists.
1989	A new company is to be set up by Sanken Electric of Japan, and the Gooding Group of the UK, to manufacture special types of power supplies for the electronic and industry.
1989	A system is also available whereby the record kept by the court stenographer is fed to a print-out on a screen for the defendant.
1989	All this disruption coincides with preparations to move to a new offices early next month, when all editing and layout will be done on .
1989	His ranking would not get him into a 42-man field.
1989	IBM, the leading US company, wants to become part of a Ecu3.3bn European effort to develop an indigenous semiconductor technology.
1989	Delays on certain products, the strength of the dollar and a shift to leasing rather than buying them had caused the company to issue the warning.
1989	It also conjures up fears of a huge Swansea-style keeping a Big Brotherish eye on every car.
1989	The data would be sent to a and, as with telephone calls, logged, costed and sent out in the form of a periodic bill.
1989	The boxes sent signals to the loops and thus to a central which clocked them up as tolls.
1989	They feared among other things, that the records logged by the central would be a threat to the privacy and freedom of drivers.
1989	They said that the models used to support the ice theory were ‘fabricated’.
1989	Two-tier criminal offence urged for hacking
1989	MOVES to outlaw ‘hacking’ will not tackle sophisticated crime unless a line is drawn between amateur hackers and professional criminals, a lawyer said yesterday.
1989	Mark Tantum, a senior lawyer at the Serious Fraud Office, told the International Bar Association conference in Strasbourg that a bank robber who turned from a mechanical to an electronic chainsaw to open the cash-box deserved different treatment from the hacker who simply accessed systems.
1989	Collecting evidence was an enormous task involving tracking communications from their source across networks to target .
1989	The rules mean that police would have to take control of the as soon as possible after the offence and establish that it was working properly at all times.
1989	The division's business is in microfilming output and laser printing.
1989	The 15-year-old boffin from New York has been charged with juvenile deliquency after he broke into the system of Grumman, the US defence contractor.
1989	The precocious meddler actually managed to gain access to a used by Grumman to handle military customers including the Pentagon, police said.
1989	Grumman said he was caught because his entry was picked up by its own .
1989	In truth, however, humble photocopying has been overtaken by the wonders of the fax and personal complete with printers.
1989	Earlier this year it spent $1bn (£620m) on ordering 300,000 personal from West Germany.
1989	Now they are run off by the crisply-produced hundred.
1989	users prepare for an attack of viruses
1989	(First Edition) experts fear ‘virus hysteria’ as Friday the 13th, a date beloved of perpetrators of viruses, approaches.
1989	Several viruses are expected to be launched on users next week, including Datacrime 2, which can wipe information from hard discs.
1989	But, according to Peter Sommer, a forensics expert, a hard disc ‘is more likely to be wiped out by glitches in the electricity supply’.
1989	He said networks would not be affected and copies of information should be made on floppy discs.
1989	can catch it by using floppy discs holding infected programmes, or from programmes copied off an electronic bulletin board, which is where it was probably first planted.
1989	The date is said to have been chosen to thwart those taking precautions by adjusting clocks, which trigger the virus, to avoid the notorious date.
1989	Wang, the company, has stopped its sponsorship of the Leinster senior league competition in protest at the Irish RFU's links with the South African Rugby Board's centenary celebrations this summer.
1989	Alan Bates's Muse Of Fire, for example, could have been compiled by a : its selection of all the biggest blazes in world literature lacks any sense of dramatic propulsion, a shapeless cabaret-set without music.
1989	were used extensively during the car's development, in a successful attempt to make the AX 220lb lighter than the class average.
1989	technology built on to telephone exchanges will allow subscribers to have the same number wherever they are in the country, automatically reject unwanted calls and bar calls to ‘chat-lines’ or other unwanted services.
1989	The key to the telephone revolution is a development which can link telephone exchanges to running a widely-used software system called UNIX.
1989	hacking may be outlawed
1989	THE LAW COMMISSION's report on hacking is to be published on Tuesday, two months earlier than planned and in time to allow ministers to put proposals for legislation into the Queen's Speech, should they so wish, writes Mary Fagan.
1989	Experts are divided over whether the commission will urge specific new legislation making hacking a crime, or opt for changes in existing laws to cope with certain types of crime.
1989	There may also be a need for changes to criminal damage laws to cover viruses and logic bombs which can corrupt and destroy data.
1989	But the main area of controversy is whether simply obtaining unauthorised access to a should be a crime.
1989	Customers can call Firstdirect at any time of the day or night at local call rates and be immediately connected to a banking representative who will carry out instructions on the .
1989	Bjorn Borg vacated the courts long ago, and though the 37-year-old Jimmy Connors will continue to swing his racket with gusto when the new Association of Tennis Professionals Tour gets underway in January, Lendl, Wilander and McEnroe remain to test the 21-year-old Becker as he endeavours to convince the rankings that he is the top man.
1989	Papersave sells recycled paper for everything from quality stationery, to paper for printing, duplicators, , note-pads, kitchen and toilet rolls.
1989	Eight months later, GM completed a merger with the services company Electronic Data Systems in a bid to improve services throughout the GM empire.
1989	They included lawyers, bankers, chartered surveyors, company directors, a market researcher, an engineer, a journalist, a charity appeals officer, a student, an actor and four managers.
1989	With their teams of lawyers, accountants and company agents, and able to transfer money at the push of a button, the launderers dodge through the maze of the different countries' jurisdictions creating a trail so complex that investigators, never mind the banks, find it almost impossible to spot what is going on.
1989	NHS At the Conservative Party Conference in 1986, Norman Fowler, then Secretary of State for Health, was loudly cheered on producing a long printout of 380 new ‘large hospital schemes’ costing £3bn, which he unrolled over the rostrum for the benefit of photographers from newspapers which had criticised the Tories' record on the NHS.
1989	Investigators are feeding weather and tide charts into a to trace the voyage.
1989	FROM desk-top micros to the largest mainframes, conventional are built around a single processor and a single store of memory.
1989	This architecture was adopted because it was simple to build, fitted the theoretical preconceptions of early scientists, and seemed to offer the greatest reliability.
1989	At a seminar hosted by the Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project last month, researchers and vendors could finally say with confidence that supercomputing in the 1990s and beyond will be done by parallel .
1989	There are fundamental limits to how fast a conventional can go.
1989	Data cannot be moved from the processor to the memory and back faster than a certain speed, which limits the performance of the as a whole.
1989	Faced with these problems, scientists began in the mid 1970s to experiment with using many processors in a single machine to work in parallel on a single problem.
1989	The advantage of this approach is that it can be scaled up to build of any size and speed.
1989	There are practical difficulties with parallel .
1989	More important was the software — how should a parallel be programmed?
1989	While some manufacturers advocated the latter, a more popular approach has been to build out of conventional processors so that many current programs and, more importantly, programming concepts, can be recycled.
1989	The transputer contains a processor, memory, and communications links on a single chip, which makes it an ideal building block for multi-processor .
1989	Faced with the loss of their previous high-performance in 1987, the university got backing from the Science and Engineering Research Council and the Department of Trade and Industry to purchase a large Computing Surface to serve both as a research vehicle and a flagship site for Meiko.
1989	The Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project (ECSP), under Professor David Wallace, now has the largest parallel in Europe, with 400 processors which can perform 400 million arithmetical calculations a second.
1989	Until now, each parallel has been so different that users had to re-write applications every time they changed machines.
1989	As well as deciding on new commission rates, firms will have to make extensive changes to their systems.
1989	Psion, the UK manufacturer of handheld and laptop , has also announced plans to incorporate pagers into .
1989	At the Conservative Party Conference in 1986, Norman Fowler, then Secretary of State for Health, produced a printout of 380 new ‘large hospital schemes’: the list was so long because he had counted every programme over £1m, whereas schemes had previously had to cost over £5m in order to qualify.
1989	When the result — 373 votes for, 12 against — flashed up on the black and green screens at either end of the chamber, the assembled deputies gave themselves a short, self-congratulatory round of applause.
1989	British breakthrough in speech-wise
1989	BRITAIN has broken a vital barrier in developing that recognise continuous speech rather than needing a keyboard to type in information.
1989	The can recognise thousands of words and, unlike older systems, do not have to be trained laboriously for each word.
1989	The has to recognise not only words, but when speech begins and ends.
1989	Early speech recognition systems relied on converting words in a given vocabulary into a pattern stored in the and comparing each spoken word to see if it matched.
1989	Some later work focused on modelling variations in speech patterns, but the still could be used by only one person who ‘trained’ by saying each word five or 10 times.
1989	According to Dr Moore, that is unrealistic if are to be able to recognise thousands of words.
1989	However, he said yesterday that it was important to distinguish between a crime in which were used as a tool, and fraud, which involved manipulating or corrupting a mainframe, which was still relatively uncommon.
1989	‘There is very little fraud as such, but almost any fraud has now got an electronic aspect,’ he said.
1989	The programme will also reveal that Barclays, one of the few major financial organisations willing to talk openly about crime, spends £20m every year on security.
1989	Trevor Nicholas, head of Barclay's operations, says that the bank has been the victim of attempts to move funds to accounts in other parts of the world, but that as far as it knows, they have been thwarted.
1989	Barclays has specialists on security, hacking and viruses — programmes which replicate themselves and can cause enormous damage.
1989	The problem of computer-related crime will be highlighted today in the Law Commission's report on Misuse.
1989	The Law Commission is also expected to deal with the legal issues surrounding viruses.
1989	Personal are too fragile to cope with viruses and must be replaced with sophisticated systems which are resilient to viruses in the first place.
1989	The barristers warn that viruses can be perpetrated inadvertently by maintenance engineers and software companies.
1989	They divide viruses into the ‘mostly harmless’ which display messages, ‘fatal distraction’which mean to display messages but accidentally cause loss of data or crash the , and ‘information terrorist’which are designed to do harm.
1989	The pace of technological change is such that the latest generation of machines is now capable of drawing graphs, working out algebraic formulae, correcting spelling mistakes and communicating with outside the examination room.
1989	In future, while candidates will be allowed to use advanced calculators, they will be forbidden from storing information in the memories of such machines or from using calculators that can be linked by aerial to outside the examination room.
1989	Random sounds are produced by banging together various objects and .
1989	Herron's pop collages should not be missed, nor should the opportunity to be guided by through his latest projects.
1989	Most of Grampian's sales staff will be taken on by TVMM, and the group expects to make savings through increased usage of resources such as research, and office space.
1989	NMW , the bureau which specialises in settlement systems for the City, has returned to the black with pre-tax profits of £48,000 in the half year to 30 June, writes Neil Thapar.
1989	Freshers were obliged to run a gauntlet of software, insurance and Student Railcard salesmen and a host of banks seeking their overdrafts, before reaching the union societies' billeted in the sports hall.
1989	STAGGERINGLY, an unknown Shakespeare play has been unearthed in a small in The Independent.
1989	hacking should be outlawed by three new criminal offences to curb the use of for serious crimes and maintain confidence in systems, the Law Commission recommended yesterday.
1989	There should a widely-drawn ‘basic’ summary offence of unauthorised entry into a system, an aggravated offence of unauthorised entry with intent to commit or assist in serious crime, and a further serious offence of altering computer-held data or programs.
1989	The third offence would cover the use of worms, viruses, Trojan horses or logic bombs and include both attacks on particular and the putting into circulation of infected disks that eventually cause unauthorised alterations to material.
1989	The commission rejected submissions that Police and Criminal Evidence Act rules on the admissibility of print-outs in evidence are too strict.
1989	OUTLAWING basic hacking will amount to ‘a charter for blackmail’ and will drive innocent youngsters underground and into the hands of serious criminals, according to Alistair Kelman, a barrister who is an expert on law.
1989	It will also decrease the likelihood of catching hardened criminals by turning informers into criminals, and allow manufacturers to carry on selling insecure for applications where they should not be used.
1989	Adding his voice to the outcry against outlawing simple unauthorised entry into , Budley Salterton (not his real name) warned: ‘It's not the catch-all they (the Law Commission) hope for.
1989	If the recommendations became law, unauthorised entry to a through carelessness would technically be an offence, so there was more of an onus on companies to ensure that all employees knew exactly what they were authorised to do, a spokesman said.
1989	However, Mr Kelman is convinced that a law against hacking for fun will hamper the investigation and prosecution of crime.
1989	Shortly after the commission's report was made public, Alan Soloman, a virus expert, invited hackers, and those whose business it is to keep them out, to a tournament which will test the expertise of both sides.
1989	That, coupled with an estimated 50 million working days a year lost to smoking-related illness, means companies now list smoking as their main health concern for male employees and second most important, after VDU and worries, for women.
1989	Cathy Wallis, a programmer, believes the policy has improved the quality of her working life and would definitely think twice about accepting a job where smoking was the norm.
1989	It warns that the spread of vast data banks means it will soon be possible to identify individuals walking along a street, whether or not they have committed a crime: ‘The new PNC2 police national will be capable of storing digitised photographs to which detectives will have instant access.’
1989	In addition, data could be passed to the police, private detectives or database holders.
1989	How many do they need, before enough is enough?
1989	But a fault in the controlling one of the engines has forced the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) to delay the launch until at least Monday.
1989	So they decided the test wasn't valid and used simulations instead, where they get to punch in all the assumptions.’
1989	One young representative, Colin Mason, a systems manager from Streatham, who branded environmental controls as ‘socialism by the back door’, was gently advised by the Secretary of State to read the Tory philospher Edmund Burke.
1989	The most likely punishment is a modest fine and a zero points score on the for the World Open.
1989	Giants could not charge admission and after cancelling match sponsorship from a local company, they lost some £2,500 on the evening's promotion.
1989	Either that, or Vince's are even better mimics than we thought.
1989	NEW YORK (AP)— users around the world waited nervously to see whether warnings of a rogue ‘virus’ come true today.
1989	It has been detected in a dozen systems in the US and yesterday the Swiss government announced that 75 of its were infected.
1989	Law: A bad system for tackling hackers: Proposals to curb crime may have the opposite effect, argues Mary Fagan
1989	A REPORT by the Law Commission on misuse, published this week, angered those who believe that hacking for fun should not be outlawed but was treated as a triumph by lobbyists for anti-hacking laws.
1989	Emma Nicholson's Private Member's Bill against hackers, which failed to make the grade in the last session of Parliament, required anyone who entered a to his or anyone else's advantage, or to another's prejudice, to be charged with a serious offence, with a maximum penalty of 10 years.
1989	It has also elegantly solved the problems surrounding theft with the aid of a .
1989	The commission has also thrown out the idea, put forward by some industrialists and businessmen, that special provision is needed for fraud.
1989	Under the Theft Acts, it is not possible to deceive a machine ('hole in the wall' banks and automated machinery as well as ).
1989	The Law Commission pointed out in a report in April that the use of has greatly facilitated the ability to plan and implement in one country a fraud that has its deleterious effect in another.
1989	According to Peter Sommer, a forensics expert, the commission has done a good job in proposing new legislation which is workable and fits well with other parts of the law.
1989	He believes there are serious gaps, such as the limitations on using information (audit trails and logs for example) as admissible evidence in court.
1989	Mr Sommer also believes the basic offence of entering a will be virtually unenforceable, partly because of lack of police manpower and partly because arrest warrants for this less serious offence will involve applying to a magistrate.
1989	Whether or not this is true, other pundits warn that fear of enforcement will drive hackers underground.
1989	Alistair Kelman, a barrister, believes this will have two nasty effects: it will prevent ‘innocent hackers’ from informing authorities about lax security or about real criminals; and it could drive those who do commit a basic offence into the hands of hardened criminals.
1989	In the US, he asserts, the government has realised that legislation is not enough and has set up the Expert Resource Team.
1989	This examines hacking and crime cases simply to gain experience and hopefully prevent future violations.
1989	But it is commonly agreed among those involved in the misuse debate that the Law Commission proposals will make it easier to prosecute those who do mean to do wrong using hacking skills.
1989	According to Alistair Kelman, however, many companies do not even comply with the Companies Act by keeping detailed records of what goes on in their systems.
1989	The commission's underlying reasons for favouring strong action on hacking stem from the losses and costs incurred by systems owners, the possibility of crime and general unwillingness by the public to invest in systems.
1989	But, beyond that, it offers a range of attractive historical displays (de rigueur waxworks and ‘period’ dishes) and ‘interactive’exhibits (instructive games and button-pushing).
1989	They put it all on .
1989	We begin with Belbo phoning from Paris to say, ‘They're after me,’ and the telephone going dead just as he is about to give the password for the file which holds the final explanation known to him alone.
1989	As for the password, on the other hand, this reviewer guessed it in one and had to wait twenty-odd pages for Casaubon to catch up.
1989	And as Friday 13th drew the week to a close, City users viewed their screens nervously.
1989	Rumours were circulating that a virus had been injected into software systems some time ago by terrorists and was programmed to break out yesterday, wiping out all data in the ailing system.
1989	One suspicious City firm actually changed the date on all its systems to 14 October, hoping to side-step any trouble.
1989	Steve Gold, the wizard and former hacker who got into Prince Philip's Prestel mailbox, still keeps names and addresses on paper.
1989	It does this through sensors which monitor speed and body movement, and this information is passed on to a .
1989	For normal driving conditions the chooses a soft suspension setting, but at speed and during sharp handling and emergency manoeuvres, it switches automatically to a firmer setting.
1989	It also showed that the greatest health worry of many companies for their male employees was smoking, but added that and visual display units (VDUs) were rated greater health risks for women.
1989	Whether or not we will shortly have a passive lobby, it certainly gives a new meaning to the hacking cough.
1989	viruses cause little disruption
1989	THE PANIC world-wide over the Friday 13th viruses came as something of an anti-climax, with the Royal National Institute for the Blind emerging as the major casualty.
1989	But experts warned users that Friday 13th viruses are only a tiny proportion of the 30 or so known types of virus which exist, and that they would be wise to keep taking precautions.
1989	According to Owen Keane, a barrister and expert, one way to prevent infection is to avoid copying programs and games from friends or electronic bulletin boards, as the virus can spread through infected floppy dics.
1989	One of the most notorious ways of spreading infection has been the game Leisure Suit Larry, which was widely pirated and became infected.
1989	Pirated games are the most likely source of spreading infections, according to one expert.
1989	Viruses can also spread if are linked by modems to the outside world.
1989	The virus is activated when the program is ‘executed’ by running it on a .
1989	The company then enters details of your property, and what sort of exchange -price, location and so on— you are looking for, in its database.
1989	hardware companies, such as Apple and Compaq, found themselves in this position, as did their software counterparts Microsoft, Lotus and Ashton-Tate.
1989	Multiple regression analysis programs can be used to introduce other independent variables that might increase the statistical reliability of the regression equation (increasing the value of Rs towards 1.0)— in our example, perhaps, the cost of cars, the cost of petrol, the total length of roadway in the country, and so on.
1990	NB If you're more used to working with , you'll find that there's a wide choice of basic payroll software available.
1990	High-tech industries, based on software and the like, had meant near-boom conditions for such places as Cambridge, Basingstoke, Winchester, and especially Swindon, the outstanding growth town of the decade.
1990	By the late 1970s, the average self-respecting British household expected to have its video recorder or microwave oven; in a variety of occupations the was taking over.
0000	The programme (Carafe — Assisted Ration Accounting and Food Evaluation) allows a wide range of management information to be available so that the efficiency and performance of staff and systems can be monitored.
0000	Their hospitality would doubtless have extended to me sampling the food in each of the three messes — but not wanting to risk either myself or the 's Carafe programme developing hiccups, I enjoyed visiting each mess and settled for eating in the Sergeant's Mess.
0000	This video shows a typical display and a part of the Ramstein performance, together with ‘enhancement’ of the accident.
1991	Every week, the playlisted records are programmed by a to rotate around the different weekday daytime shows.
1991	As a result, many stations are now programmed by one man and a .
1991	If the company are unwilling to do this, the accountant, possibly with the assistance of a bureau, will generally be happy to get this done.
1987	Hoskyns had built up a company and been active in the Centre for policy Studies before joining Mrs Thatcher.
1989	It didn't take him long to master the basics of what British Steel was all about and he has been just as versatile in acquiring an understanding of a diverse range of other businesses, from and oil drilling to knitwear machines.
1989	If you fail to make them right, then all the marketing and in the world won't help you.
1989	The governing factors, whether it be marketing or or finance, are the same for a big or small company.
1989	It's just like young people today dealing with .
1989	They are all growing up with the effortlessly.
1978	The building had no air-conditioning apart from the suite itself and since it was almost completely sheathed in plate glass the heat in the summer was almost intolerable.
1990	The Corrado also has a multi-function , while the Calibra has a no-cost option of metallic paint.
1991	Ergonomically, the layout is hard to fault but the space allocated for the otherwise clear and attractive instrumentation seems to have shrunk — it would have been far better to have the readout under the dials instead of the heater controls — and we question the need for such extravagantly styled air vents.
1991	Sure enough, at the track the reveals that the Delta breaks the 0–60mph barrier in 6.3secs, half a second quicker than the Golf.
1991	For reasons best known to the fuel companies, the Gulf crisis never turned into an oil crisis, although petrol prices generally leap up and down quicker than a Tory backbencher during a Neil Kinnock speech if a dealer on the Amsterdam spot market so much as sneezes over his screen.
1991	The will select the cards and your personal prediction will be read.
1991	There she's been provided with Braille equipment and a talking .
1990	The use of sophisticated games and simulators certainly begins to mimic ‘real’ tasks — but we have reached another problem.
1990	With sufficient ingenuity all the tests except those in groups 2B, 3A, 5C could be devised by a .
1990	For many tests, they are best printed on paper, but for some, Groups 5–7, the test can be run on the screen.
1990	If you are scoring the tests yourself, rather than getting the to do it for you, then always do so at the same time of day — otherwise there would be variability due to time-of-day effects upon your scoring ability.
1990	The Company Command Post is already a hive of activity as the daily reports are being collated on a , ready for transmission to Battalion Headquarters.
1991	At our interview at the Royal Overseas League she was about to leave for a pit-stop author's tour, with an immensely heavy bag containing a laptop on which she fires off requests and thank-you letters: to American Secretary of State James Baker for his introduction to President Mobutu, to the King of Spain for agreeing to host a fundraising dinner for a chimp sanctuary in Spain.
1991	In the new-technology jobs of banking and , where employers are anxious to avoid publicity, most claims are being settled out of court, but as the number of cases increases, litigation could become more popular.
1991	It also recorded over 2,000 inquiries from employers on the centre's .
1991	This systems then bring all this together graphically on to a screen — which can be the hotel's back-office system to avoid duplication.
1991	One big cost in BEM system, wiring plant and rooms to the , can now be avoided by using the mains cabling itself as the data communication network.
1991	Not all BEM efficiency relies on sophisticated control.
1991	One main advantage of control is that it can differentiate between real time and elastic time.
1991	Again these machines are monitored (a feature which is common on units from the USA and now more in evidence on European-made machines) with the simply emitting a beep and flashing up a ‘filter now’ sign when filtration should take place.
1991	They'd both jacked in their jobs (he's a programmer; she's a physiotherapist) and were planning to backpack round the world for a few months.
1989	Disposals such as Woodchester, London Forfaiting, the three Gartmore trusts, and two divisions of Atlantic should raise another £225million, Mr Gunn said yesterday.
1989	Unit trust prices are calculated on using market information supplied by the WM Company.
1989	In New York, television projections suggested Mr David Dinkins, a Democrat, would become the first black mayor of the city, beating the Republican, Mr Rudolph Giuliani.
1989	Camden and Islington councils, meanwhile, have given the Met a free copy of LAFIS — a programme which they developed at a cost of £15 million, and sold to other authorities for about £2 million a throw.
1989	The breakdown of an estimated £30 to £35 million for the organisational costs goes roughly like this: £18 million from official suppliers, in kind, such as , copiers and clothing; £6 million from ticket sales; £3 million from the Sports Council and £6 million from advertising.
1989	The start of trading on the New York and American Stock Exchanges was held up for an hour yesterday after a fire, caused by an electrical fault, broke out in the building housing the exchanges' systems, writes Mary Brasier in New York.
1989	Sheet by acid-sprayed sheet, 144 pieces of a huge jigsaw of tubes and angles beeped and fluttered from four laser facsimile machines in Sir Titus Salt's former alpaca mill, while at his home in California Hockney — already master of , photocopy, and snipped-photograph art — was feeding the composite picture into his own fax.
1989	Occasional tables bear chess sets.
1989	The theory would appear to be borne out by his subsequent record: only one further final appearance, at Los Angeles, and eight losses to players ranked below him on the .
1989	MANY DESKTOP can generate high-quality digital sound, but apart from games and music programs, most software emits only beeps.
1989	Gaver's recent doctoral thesis at the University of California, San Diego, included work on the use of sound in interfaces.
1989	This leads to the idea of auditory icons, which indicate the nature of objects inside the , by alluding to some object in the real world.
1989	Maybe they like to know the is still doing something while they look away from the screen.
1989	Maybe it helps to generate the sense of ‘direct engagement’ in your work that comes when you forget you are using a at all.
1989	He has added sound to his Alternative Reality Kit (Guardian, October 1, 1987), a simulated world where you, the user, can change the laws of physics.
1989	In commercial applications, he believes sound will be particularly important in collaborative tasks, where people need to be alert to what colleagues are doing, without having it distractingly thrust upon their attention.
1989	It takes up where MacPuke left off, offering a whole range of activities the is likely to perform, and the opportunity to attach any sound to them.
1989	It's only the .
1989	In terms, its bulk is certainly low.
1989	It also says major applications will be made available on plug-in cards but, as always, buyers should only assess what they can see, not what might turn up who-knows-when.
1989	Will patients or the industry benefit as the new NHS contract forces GPs into the micro-chip age?.
1989	General practice is thus being forced kicking and screaming into the age.
1989	Nor has the Department decided whether it is going to contribute towards the considerable capital cost of new , causing doctors to put off to the last minute a decision on which system to choose.
1989	With only a third of Britain's 10,000 practices so far computerised, and practice systems costing on average well over £20,000, 1990 will be a bonanza year for the industry.
1989	Vamp, one of the three big companies specialising in the medical business, is currently placing 80 to 100 a month.
1989	An estimated 40 new firms have already joined the big three specialising in GP since the Government's controversial plans for a management orientated NHS were published in January.
1989	Scores of consultants have appeared to provide ‘specialist’ help.
1989	‘It is an absolute shambles,’ says Dr Glynn Hayes, a GP and president of the British Society GP specialists' committee.
1989	Yet most practices still do not have a , and the vast majority will start working the contract without the information technology expertise to manage it.’
1989	Practices are actually in danger of going bankrupt through errors on the part of the administrators.’
1989	How the will get the data is an outstanding question.
1989	can also enable hospitals and GPs to talk to each other far more quickly and efficiently, to book out-patient appointments, get the results of lab tests and receive information when a patient is discharged from hospital.
1989	Hospitals are developing systems which are often not compatible with one another and are being used as little more than expensive word processors.
1989	By Jack Schofield editor
1989	SCO's Doug Michels claims, ‘You can now build a PC-based workstation, server or departmental mini that will outrun virtually any based on today's Risc microprocessors or proprietary CPUs.’
1989	TEESSIDE Polytechnic is launching the UK's first computerised course in communications.
1989	However, there is an alternative which doesn't presuppose the use of any particular kind of , or even any particular kind of network.
1989	MIT wanted students on its campus network to be able to use a wide range of different host at the same time, but using only one terminal.
1989	But the host also had different user interfaces, and students couldn't be expected to learn them all.
1989	It defines the X Protocol which carries packets of data from the host to the terminal (which, in a workstation, can be in the same box).
1989	Second, they give users a microcomputer-style interface while leaving the applications, and the host on which they are running, in the control of the data processing department.
1989	Vertical applications have just started to appear, one of the first being Cambridge Micro's package for estate agents (, June 1).
1989	Now, music is so undifferentiated and ubiquitous that young lives are measured instead by TV commercials or games with Bomb The Bass backing tracks on them.
1989	Music isn't for keeping and treasuring, it's for cutting up and feeding into a .
1989	THE LATEST financial results from US companies are awash in red ink, due to a slowdown in US sales, restructuring and, in some cases, the devaluation of stock as component prices fell.
1989	Stock Exchange surveillance pick up any unusual movement in share prices and the regulators follow up with visits to stockbrokers involved to discover who has been dealing.
1989	GuardianWS27, 29.
1989	The annual costs estimate includes £155 million for a ‘strengthening of management at all levels,’ £10.5 million to pay members of health authorities, £15.6 million for administering general practitioner budgets, and £3.3 million for to monitor drugs spending.
1989	The immediate difficulties were caused by administrative and changes as local authorities took over the administration of the benefit.
1989	APRIVATE member's bill to criminalise hacking along the lines of the Law Commission's recommendations would attract active Government support, it was disclosed yesterday.
1989	The announcement by the Department of Trade and Industry follows fierce criticism of the absence of legislative proposals on misuse in the Queen's Speech.
1989	Peter Brown, Professor of Science, University of Kent, Canterbury CT2 7NF.
1989	AS PER normal on Thursday I bought the Guardian in order to read your pages.
1989	Bernard Horen, University of Manchester Medical Informatics Group, Dept of Science, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL.
1989	A user may have a deep knowledge of business problems, but knowing little about , has no idea how they should be tackled.
1989	Ian Richards' book, How to Use a to Improve Your Business, has just been published by Graham & Trotman (£8.95 paperback; £16 hardback).
1989	By Jack Schofield editor
1989	Alpha is being developed for systems like the US Advanced Tactical Fighter, which has about 20 real-time systems on board, the NASA space station, and possibly the Strategic Defense Initiative.
1989	The project is being led by Doug Jensen at the Concurrent Corp., Massachusetts.
1989	NIXDORF and Tandem are developing a fault-tolerant mini based on Risc (Reduced instruction set ) chips from Mips Systems and the Unix operating system.
1989	With a Risc processor rated at 55 mips (million instructions per second), this is the industry's fastest general-purpose .
1989	THE winner of Guardian's Compaq Competition is Allan Kelly of Slough, Bucks, whose card was first out of the hat.
1989	Jack Schofield provides a user-friendly guide to the home on offer this Christmas and picks the best-value buys Avoiding turkeys.
1989	CHRISTMAS is coming, and the home companies are hoping to get fat.
1989	These are relatively cheap, the games come on easy-to-load cartridges and are, on average, better than the home versions.
1989	Third, you can get a real for less.
1989	Indeed, the cheapest ‘real ’ has a dual nature.
1989	Nowadays, multimedia means a using different media, such as a laser disc, a CD-ROM, cable TV and who knows what else.
1989	Just try to learn French on your .
1989	compute.
1989	The fluency of Indians in English, a legacy of British rule, has made India a lucrative hunting ground for US firms on the lookout for qualified manpower.
1989	According to Nasscom Chief Executive, Prem Shivdasani, there are about 300 Indian firms devoted to software engineering.
1989	The Indian Department of Electronics says overseas firms can take advantage of the trained manpower available in India due to liberal economic policies and incentives provided by the government.
1989	Courses aimed at training professionals have been started at nearly 250 institutions in the country.
1989	In search of presents without a future Rob Ainsley pinpoints those eminently disposable stocking fillers for the buff who has everything.
1989	are ideal for boring, repetitive and mind-numbing tasks — which makes you wonder why there isn't any artificial intelligence Christmas list-making software on the market.
1989	The catalogues are full of little hardware trinkets, no doubt all perfectly well intentioned and thoughtfully designed, but all excellent solutions in search of a problem.
1989	And unlike software, they are not limited to one particular type of or disc format.
1989	Of course, not all presents for the person-with-everything even require a .
1989	Hot Shot's monthly releases gave you 45 minutes of video excerpts of the latest games for only £5.
1989	Smack-a-Mac!, from the prosaically entitled Accessories That Make Fun, San Diego, is a miniature smiling toy Mac filled with soft padding.
1989	Spending on information technology has also declined, demonstrating that the industry is no longer recession-proof.
1989	In fact, today's three major industry trends — towards ‘downsizing,’ portable operating systems and open networks — are all working against IBM.
1989	‘Downsizing’ simply means that firms are tending to buy smaller to do jobs which used to require big ones, and big are where IBM makes most of its money.
1989	Traditionally, manufacturers have used proprietary software to ‘lock in’ users, who would then find it impossible or prohibitively expensive, to move their applications to other manufacturers' machines — or even, in IBM's case, different machines from the same manufacturer.
1989	This strategy is being made obsolete by Unix, an ‘open’ operating system that runs on hundreds of different from hundreds of different manufacturers, from micros and minis through mainframes to supercomputers.
1989	Open networking provides the means for from different vendors to be connected together using OSI (open systems interconnection) standards.
1989	They are no longer isolated and no longer see as providing mainly internal services such as payroll and stock control.
1989	They must interact with the outside world, and networks of are the way to do it.
1989	The highest award was £307,781 to a expert who injured his back helping a store detective stop a suspected shoplifter.
1989	Mr John Lamidey, an officer of the Data Protection Registrar, concluded after visiting the league's London office that the data on was not that used for vetting, which ‘appears to be held on paper’.
1989	The case of Mr Francis Foecke, aged 31, began in June 1986, when the board of examiners alleged dishonest conduct in his maths and studies finals.
1989	All forms are being checked by Price Waterhouse systems to weed out illegal multiple applications.
1989	Dr David Baker, managing director of Sigma Projects, said the Russian pictures are the best available, with resolution down to 5-10 metres, or better with enhancement.
1989	Scotland Yard is lending Mr Porceddu 10 officers to help him to keep tabs on the 100 ooligans whose names have flashed up on Fifa's ticket .
1989	Jones, Wimbledon winner, respected referee and, just as significantly, mother of three, confines herself to: ‘It's very tough, not helped in our girls’ case by the .
1989	This was compounded in her case when she jumped 20 places on the world in 1987 after reaching the third round at Edgbaston.
1989	Most were used either for word processing or simple information storage tasks; very few were used for analysing business trends or problems.
1989	Most of the high technology services firms were working at the frontier of usage, developing new software packages or sophisticated interactive training models for business.
1989	The City will bang a few numbers into its , mutter something about sector relative p/e ratios and come up with an answer: yes or no.
1989	All forms are being checked by Price Waterhouse systems to weed out illegal multiple applications.
1989	Jones, Wimbledon winner, respected referee and, just as significantly, mother of three, confines herself to: ‘It's very tough, not helped in our girls’ case by the .
1989	This was compounded in her case when she jumped 20 places on the world in 1987 after reaching the third round at Edgbaston.
1989	The world champion may not be worried about the £500 fine handed out for throwing the last game of his bizarre straight-games loss to Jahangir Khan in the final of last month's Stuttgart Open, but he should be more concerned at the zero points assigned him for the Stuttgart tournament, which may enable Jahangir to overtake him in the New Year rankings, plus the fact that any further misdemeanour will probably mean draconian punishment.
1989	Last week they got so fed up with commuters crowding round their screens to find out the train times — because the board wasn't working — they just switched them all off.
1989	Sally is studying for Art A-level and doing courses to take her into the high tech world of 1990s textile design.
1989	IVAN LENDL, No.1 in the rankings, heads a list of 12 of the world's top 20 players who have entered next month's Australian Open.
1989	The defects of the present set-up were inherited from the previous regime and those who see Prean's point of view and are aware of the dissatisfaction of many players at the way in which points are calculated had already been planning a more advanced system.
1989	MINISTERS yesterday announced that £31 million will be available next year to develop systems to assess hospital doctors' success in treating patients.
1989	Whether they get the software, dolls and musical instruments they asked him for remains to be seen.
1989	Let's hope Santa isn't too strapped for cash as a result of the interest rate because he also has to get Silvanian fire places, sewing machines, Sindy (sic) dolls, guns, kitchen sets, guitars, books, a baby changing unit, felt tip pens, videos, electric cars, electric trains, micro machines, , personal stereos, mighty metro racing sets, radio controlled aeroplanes, slippers and a camra.
1989	A strategy for England is promised.
1989	Although Mr Headroom was actually flesh and blood posing as the unreal thing, there are plenty of animation specialists who think he had the right idea.
1989	The history of graphics in film production has not been the smoothest.
1989	The first major attempt to use animation in a feature film was largely down to the novelty of the medium itself.
1989	Tron was released in 1982, using animation to rescue a poor script.
1989	As the setting was inside a series of games, there was no real requirement to go beyond the ‘look.’
1989	At about the same time, the graphics lab at the New York Institute of Technology was working on what it ambitiously claimed would ultimately be the first full-length computer-generated feature, The Works.
1989	Appetites were whetted among those working on the Tron project and a host of animation specialists sprang up in California looking for a piece of the Hollywood action.
1989	Although the film was finished, the cost finally pulled Digital Productions under — together with other Hollywood hopefuls — in the big US animation crash of 1986.
1989	The current crop of releases includes two movies that demonstrate the reality today of graphics in film, making significant but very different uses of the technology.
1989	The Abyss builds on the heritage of special effects, while Oliver and Company offers a showcase for the latest technical additions to the classic Disney school of animation.
1989	Industrial Light and Magic's construction of a realistic creature made of water in The Abyss is the kind of job the ‘synthetic reality’ wing of the animation business has been waiting for.
1989	Unlike all those old spaceships, there is no way you could have done this without using advanced graphics.
1989	graphics should now make the same kind of inroads into feature film production that they already have in television.
1989	You might have thought that the last bastion of resistance to would come from the classic craft environment of hand animation.
1989	In fact, play a leading role in a great deal of cartoon production these days.
1989	The secret of that film's success was the realistic merging of the cartoon world and live action — an achievement that was once again down to clever effects at Industrial Light and Magic.
1989	But why go to all that trouble to make a 2D character appear solid when you could generate it on a in 3D in the first place?
1989	It shouldn't be too long before we get an answer in the shape of the first animation feature films.
1989	Having cut his teeth at Disney Studios, Lasseter has developed a reputation with a series of shorts over the past five years which have brought together the very best aspects of hand and animation, creating something quite special in the process.
1989	graphics in feature film production will be discussed at the Imagina conference on new images in Monte Carlo, February 6-8.
1989	A £20 million contract for running a new social security centre has been awarded to a non-union, American-based company without any other bids being invited.
1989	ACONTRACT worth up to £20 million for running a new social security centre was yesterday awarded to a non-union, American-based company without any other bids being invited.
1989	Earlier this year EDS, an autonomous subsidiary of General Motors, was awarded a five-year contract worth between £10 million and £15 million to run a social security centre at Livingston in Scotland.
1989	Livingston and Norcross are two of four area centres which will run the social security and pensions systems.
1989	games consoles are getting better, cheaper and smaller than ever before.
1989	Its VCS (Video System) was the first colour home game system, and sold over 20 million.
1989	They are fast-moving, colourful, noisy, and as good if not better than anything you can buy for home .
1989	Adding a human opponent gives a game an extra, unpredictable excitement that a opponent lacks.
1989	She has just taken office as president of the British Society, and needs to make it jump from the seventies, where some believe it is still stuck, into the nineties.
1989	But another forum for part of the industry, the Services Association (CSA), got what it wanted — a promise from the Government to buy in from software houses at least one-third of the applications software needed to run the ministries.
1989	This one-to-10 ratio makes the profession unlike law, architecture, medicine and even engineering, where you need to be registered and qualified before you start practising at all.
1989	They say the same about science degrees.
1989	There are other grumbles about the society, very often coming from members themselves and sometimes published in the society's own organ, the Bulletin.
1989	Away from London, however, BCS branches are places where people, both academic and business, can huddle together for warmth in a hostile world.
1989	It holds joint meetings with the British Institute of Management, the Institute of Electrical Engineers, the NCC, and the Irish Society across the border.
1989	The BCS does lots of other good things, like sitting on 31 standards committees, working with 15 European societies to harmonise professional qualifications for the single market, accrediting science courses to make them less theoretical and more oriented towards projects, maintaining a register of expert witnesses, setting up ad hoc specialist groups very quickly on new areas like expert systems, natural language translation and parallel processing, and helping the disabled.
1989	The BCS has got to decide whether it is just for people who produce systems, or also for those — accountants, engineers, project managers, architects, writers, artists, musicians and designers of arcade games — who apply them.
1989	One BCS initiative has started to produce a ‘hybrid’— a computer-person who understands the outside world, or conversely an outsider who understands .
1989	It might even bring British people up to the level of their more professional continental opposite numbers.
1989	By Jack Schofield editor
1989	XEROX filed a $150 million lawsuit against Apple in the US District Court, San Francisco, last Thursday.
1989	Xerox developed the first graphical user interface for its Star in the seventies.
1989	KEYLINE, the forthcoming home shopping service based on a new portable terminal (, July 7, 1988 and September 7, 1989) has finally announced the names of some of the firms who will use it.
1989	The Pen-Pal project is part of a teaching experiment in which the School of Modern Languages and the Department of Science are taking part.
1989	Essentially the ‘Trojan’ demands money with menaces — exactly as predicted on this page by Rupert Goodwins many months ago (April 7, 1988).
1989	After the has been started up a number of times — possibly 90 — the damage starts.
1989	Bates's efforts have been sponsored by Personal Business World magazine, which innocently provided the mailing list used to distribute 7,000 Trojans to readers with PC/XT .
1989	Although the Trojan has been described, sensationally, as ‘the biggest crime in the world,’ what law does it break?
1989	But those who wish to make a formal complaint can contact Detective Sergeant Donovan of the crime unit, tel.: 01-725 2434.
1989	Clearaid: Personal Business World, 01-831 9252.
1989	Certainly their substance should be accessible to anyone not so far gone in the contemplation of astrology — a science, so it is widely held, on the cogent grounds that its practitioners use — homeopathy, aromatherapy, or telekinesis as to be beyond the reach of reason.
1989	Perhaps the most alluring prospects lie in artificial intelligence and that learn.
1989	Penzias does not, though, embrace the philosophical heresy that can be said to reason, even if public credulity, reinforced by science fiction, often imputes sentient powers to them.
1989	Such applications were prefigured by Michael Frayn some 20 years ago in his novel The Tin Men which features a programmed to pray, so that its orisons might bring down divine favour in accordance with Christian teaching: the having no selfish motives, its disinterested sincerity cannot be doubted.
1989	His book undoubtedly fills a need; it may, besides, make you wonder whether we have most of us come all that far since the days of Babbage, the true father of the , who recorded in his memoirs that he often used to be asked by the mandarins of the English establishment, when they came to view his difference engine: ‘Pray, Mr Babbage, if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right answers come out?’
1989	Within the last 18 months, the company has sold: its European silicones business to Rhone-Poulenc for £30million; four businesses from its Canadian offshoot CIL; a software company to managers; a West German printing inks business; its over-the-counter drugs business in the US and Savlon in Britain; a Canadian building products business to Trafalgar House; and its Coopers Animal Health, which it owned with Wellcome, to Chicago-based Pitman-Moore; During the period it has bought: Cambridge research Biochemicals; a privatelyowned US acrylics company, K-S-H; Rayca Chemical Corporation, which makes chemicals for the US textiles industry.
1989	The Automobile Association skeleton staff trio will be huddled in front of their personal screens relaying road conditions to drivers.
1989	Most of the exchange of information goes on before the Christmas holiday — like yesterday and today when 12 people were at their .
1989	IN SMALL, anonymous offices around Scotland, well away from the public eye, printers are now busy churning out tens of thousands of warning letters to rebellious voters.
1989	discs, containing the names of defaulters, are being despatched to the men in the small offices so that final legal warnings can be printed and distributed.
1989	Simpson's own practice recently received a disc from an unnamed council containing the names of over 5,000 defaulters.
1989	THE IMPROVER: The kids want a bicycle or the Beano annual or the latest game.
1989	At the same time, scientists are building models of ocean circulation but full three-dimensional models must wait for the next generation of powerful .
1989	He is credited with forcing Gen Noriega to remove a portrait of Adolf Hitler from the wall of his secret bunker, training the dictator's personal bodyguard, setting up his networks and complex personal banking system, and establishing a small and private intelligence team to watch over the Panamanian secret police and military intelligence.
1989	The bodies of Richard Paul, aged 20, and his uncle Raymond Dragseth, aged 47, a professor of science at Panama Canal College, were found shot through the back of the head in a building near the Vatican Embassy in Panama yesterday.
1990	When new sounds were made, the dolphin could immediately and with great accuracy copy the previously unheard sounds.
1990	Lilly believes that humans and dolphins can communicate with each other despite their physical differences, and he has constructed a complex system to send translated messages between human and dolphin.
1990	In the new project called Project Delphis, the Hawaiian-based environmental organisation Earthtrust is using technology to convert dolphin sounds into electrical impulses, so that dolphins can interact with via a standard video screen.
1991	A , similarly programmed, is trying, at long last, to get things right for her.
1991	The water managers will push water in or hold water out according to a programmed with decades of data about rainfall and drought.
1991	To determine whether the dark patches on the map mean weeds, trees or crops, aid workers have to visit the spot.
1991	Graham Allen, a Labour campaigner for better conditions, is one of many MPs who also want more research and help.
1991	The other three preconditions, according to FMCG, are: that the acquiring bank has a proven record of controlling its non-interest expenses (that is, the costs of systems, branches, staff and so forth ); that the acquiring bank will be getting a mix of businesses, which, combined sensibly with their own, add up to more than the sum of the parts; and that the two banks are physically close together.
1991	One of its first acts is to hook a newly acquired bank into its own systems.
1991	Scrapping duplicate facilities and staff accounts typically for four-fifths of all potential savings, according to FMCG's John Moynihan.
1991	The bank's other reason for turning two quickly into one is to get the newly acquired bank on Banc One's own financial-reporting system.
1991	models show that the best way of coming up with an inflationary universe that shows the same degree of clumpiness as the real one is to use dark matter that is ‘cold’.
1991	Where Mr Winchester's cross-Pacific connections become less sure is when they become tangible and man-made: the optical-fibre telephone cable that snakes beneath the Pacific from California to Hawaii and then branches out to Japan and Guam; the AsiaSat satellite and its fellow ‘birds’, sitting on the equator to bounce across Asia the telephone calls of businessmen and the television dramas of Hollywood; the new Boeing 747–400, able to fly non-stop from Sydney to Los Angeles; and, odd as it seems, the Macintosh .
1991	Mr Winchester, a Mac-fan of many years and now the boss of a Mac-using electronic-publishing company, has an ingenious explanation: unlike the clumsy MS-DOS operating system that powers IBM and all their clones, the Mac can cope with comparative ease with the pictographic scripts and unusual phonetic alphabets of Asia.
1991	But, as banks all over the world know, higher wages and more often fail to result in higher productivity.
1991	Those who know the children best can decide whether to splash out on a part-time assistant or a fancy .
1991	The unlikely marriage between tousled Microsoft and buttoned-down IBM created the hottest products in the decade's hottest industry, personal .
1991	Together, IBM and Microsoft set the technical standards that helped fuel the explosive growth of personal in the 1980s: ‘IBM-compatible’ hardware and Microsoft's DOS operating-system software, the basic program needed to run any .
1991	Gary Kildall, whose Digital Research created the CP/M operating system for the first generation of personal , did not jump at IBM's offer.
1991	Because it was IBM jumping into the market with Microsoft in 1981 — as opposed to yet-another bunch of blue-jeaned entrepreneurs — would-be competitors reckoned the couple's technology might be worth copying.
1991	Almost everybody in the industry expected something similar to happen with OS/2.
1991	Perhaps the relatively high price of the more powerful personal needed to run OS/2 has put off budget-minded companies.
1991	It is nowhere near as good as OS/2 at managing complex tasks, like getting to co-operate across a network.
1991	For Big Blue, OS/2 is just one piece of a grand vision about how all of a company's can work together.
1991	The main market for Japan's semiconductor makers — the American industry — has been sinking deeper into slump since August 1990.
1991	A programme of sufficient complexity, he (and many others) argue, can simulate any human mind to any level of detail required.
1991	TOMORROW's moonstruck but musically unaccomplished lover may soon get a chance to serenade with the help of a .
1991	The runs through the song while the serenader adds nuance and expression, straight from his own aching heart.
1991	Scientists and musicians have struggled to add feeling to synthesised computer-music ever since Max Mathews first helped to teach to play, more than 30 years ago.
1991	Now Dr Mathews, a musician from Stanford University in California, is trying to find a way of getting people to take charge of music's humanity.
1991	At the AAAS meeting, he described his efforts to separate music into its components: the methodical, mechanical parts which suit a , and the subtler qualities through which a musician struggles to express his soul.
1991	The translates this motion into musicianship.
1991	The takes care of the nuts and bolts of the composition, the component Dr Mathews calls its predetermined part.
1991	American Telephone and Telegraph extended its $6.1 billion bid for NCR, an American maker, for a second time, to April 30th.
1990	What remains of the headquarters team should then be reorganised to make the most of , and exposed to the sort of cost-cutting techniques usually associated with the shop floor.
1990	This should enable to give highly detailed information: how many people live within a radius of a certain point, for example, or how many live along a river's flood plain.
1990	The banks, threatened with the loss of many lucrative transactions (and with expensive networks to maintain) were not co-operating with the authorities, who talked of sending the police round to see that they did.
1990	‘QUIT while you're on top’ seems to be the philosophy of Mr Jon Shirley, president of Microsoft, the leading supplier of software for personal .
1990	The company has added to its strength in systems software — particularly the DOS operating system which comes with every IBM-compatible personal — with a range of word-processors, spreadsheets and other applications software.
1990	Traditionally, Microsoft has concentrated on creating products — and left the courting of customers to its dealers or to the makers who sold its DOS operating system with their machines.
1990	Apple 's relationship with Mr Allan Lorenz, who was hired from a giant insurance firm, CIGNA, to beef up Apple's appeal to corporate accounts, ended in tears.
1990	Though Microsoft offers its programs on three different operating systems — DOS, OS/2 and Apple Macintosh — only about one-fifth of the program need be tinkered with to shift from one to another.
1990	IBM was not the first company to produce mainframe (Remington Rand, Raytheon and Philco were all pioneers), but it was the first to make vast first-mover investments in integrated production, distribution and management for the introduction of its System 360 in 1964.
1990	By going global before its rivals and by investing heavily in managerial expertise, IBM launched itself as the world's biggest company.
1990	It is now America's eleventh-biggest maker.
1990	THE that most companies want do not beat grandmasters at chess, attempt to predict the weather, or do scientists out of a job.
1990	This task has often seemed to combine the pedantry of library theory with the incomprehensibility of science.
1990	Instead of maintaining a distinction between programs (the 's rules for thinking) and data (what it thinks about) the idea of object-oriented programming is to create abstract ‘objects’ that contain both.
1990	Several American companies now offer object-oriented databases — among them Symbolics (noted for that run the LISP programming language), Ingres (maker of a best-selling relational database), and start-ups including Servio Logic, Ontologic and Object Design.
1991	And do you seriously believe that the American or world industry would be better today if IBM had been broken up into five pieces 20 years ago, as the 1960s and 1970s trustbusters proposed?
1991	Or might we still be awaiting the development of personal by some Japanese company?
1991	They use a sophisticated cost-benefit model to work out how far they should go in luring any given company with tax breaks or grants of land.
1991	Utah's industry is starting to tempt firms out of southern California.
1991	The state has the largest agglomeration of companies in America after Silicon Valley and Route 128 in Massachusetts.
1991	After whizzing these numbers through its , the NBER reckons that the economy peaked in July of last year.
1991	Diplomats in Tokyo see the British in retreat over and electronics as well as cars.
1991	The French and the Italians had ICL — the Britain-based maker recently bought by Fujitsu — thrown out of a number of collaborative projects financed by the Community.
1991	But last October, when the firm launched a notebook-sized using Intel's even more advanced 80386SX, several other manufacturers had already announced similar machines.
1991	Today, the industry's most exciting products are workstations — powerful, big-screened used by scientists and stock traders — and ever-smaller portable .
1991	‘If you're looking for something really new, like pen-based or multi-media, Compaq doesn't stand for that,’ says Stewart Alsop, editor of PC Letter, a trade journal.
1991	Last year Dell , a Texan maker of IBM clones, launched a withering series of advertisements comparing its machines with Compaq's dearer models.
1991	In one, Dell's laptop , priced at $3,899, is dubbed ‘the lap of luxury’; Compaq's equivalent, at $6,799, the ‘lap of lunacy’.
1991	This year the American PC market is forecast to grow by less than 10%, a far cry from the 20% annual growth that makers are used to.
1991	California's Apple did the same thing in a bigger way last October, when it halved the price-tag on its popular Macintosh model.
1991	In those days think-tanks were intoxicated by the new sophistication they could apply to their work by way of , games theory and other novelties.
1991	Just as overwrite out-of-date files on their disks, monks used to scrape useless manuscripts clean and recycle them.
1991	Then he feeds the pictures into a , which cuts each picture into 1m tiny elements and records the precise shade of grey of each one.
1991	Dr Friedman has put parts of 200 manuscripts from northern England into his .
1991	Dr Friedman wants to make the more than just a clever magnifying glass.
1991	Quill-written characters consist of a series of more-or-less straight strokes, simple enough for a to turn into numbers and analyse, but complex enough to vary from scribe to scribe.
1991	With the aid of rare signed texts, Dr Friedman is programming his to recognise the shapes of strokes in the hands of various writers.
1991	But the has revolutionised the art.
1991	Page make-up and graphics programs allow anybody able to use a to change a type-face or its size, to paste in pictures and to lay out the text in almost any manner.
1991	The need to catch the attention of browsers and quickly to tell them that Parker pens are elegant, or that Toshiba personal are high-tech, has spawned most of these ‘display’ faces.
1991	For example, some of the finer type-faces are corrupted by cheap, popular printers.
1991	Today, because the personal and laser-printer are mass-produced and work using cheap electronic components, anybody can publish text of almost professional quality for an investment of only $3,000.
1991	Far from banishing paper from the office, the and its attachments have made memos, brochures, reports and forms simpler and cheaper to produce.
1991	If this revolution has a name, it is PostScript, the technical standard that Adobe invented, which many competing makers, laser-printer makers and the publishing industry have settled on.
1991	programs can take care of the mathematics, as long as the designer tells them what shape he wants.
1991	A designer need only draw on a screen the letter forms that he likes and the machine will convert them automatically into Bézier curves.
1991	Soon PostScript (and one of its rivals, called TrueType, which is the brain-child of Apple and Microsoft, two suppliers to the personal-computer market) will be added to the nuts and bolts of so that their screens accurately display the page about to be printed.
1991	Intent on reducing costs by around $400m, Apple is considering sacking around a tenth of its 15,600 workers.
1991	On December 5th American Telephone & Telegraph (AT&T) bid $6.1 billion for NCR, America's sixth-largest maker, after merger talks had turned into a shouting match.
1991	Indeed it says that it wants to hand its own business over to NCR's managers, and has pledged not to close the firm's factories or sack its workers as a result of the merger.
1991	AT&T makes the classic, albeit dubious, argument that telecoms and businesses fit together strategically.
1991	He points out that AT&T's business has repeatedly failed, something which even AT&T admits.
1991	So AT&T is trying to oust Mr Exley and his board, which includes some of the people it once hoped would run its own business.
1991	Not every component of a modern tank shell is made by .
1991	European prices for memory chips, a key component of and other electronic equipment, are about to rise by 10–15%, according to estimates by Dataquest, a firm of analysts.
1991	Though Mr Honey's detailed maps got rave reviews from specialists, fewer than 3,000 were sold.
1991	Another contender may be the emerging empire of Thaksin Shinawatra, who began by distributing IBM in Thailand, set up the country's first cable-television operation and has now received permission to establish his own cellular-telephone network.
1991	Far more would come from combining systems.
1991	Operation Desert Storm, by contrast, seems so far to have been supplied without a hitch — thanks to .
1991	The air force, for example, keeps track of its stock on a $200m system built under contract by Sciences Corporation in El Segundo, California, using IBM mainframe and off-the-shelf database software from Associates in New York.
1991	If a bomber in Saudi Arabia breaks down, a technician requests parts from a in his repair bay.
1991	If the cannot find the part at the local air base, the request is automatically forwarded, via satellite, to the right place back in America.
1991	The in Ogden, or wherever, finds the supply nearest to where it is needed.
1991	At every warehouse, monitor stock levels and re-order from the factory when they fall below a minimum.
1991	Whether it goes through in America or in the desert, the information can be with commanders in the field in a matter of minutes.
1991	At its heart is a sophisticated ‘phased-array’ radar, a stationary gridwork of tiny radar transmitters controlled by .
1991	By putting the elements in the radar out-of-step with each other to various degrees, the can use the array to make a radar beam that can flit across the sky and track a number of targets almost simultaneously.
1991	This missile is not particularly clever, but the that control it and the radar are.
1991	The then use it to check the guidance instructions.
1991	If the target uses ECM — Scuds do not, but aeroplanes can — then the relatively powerful on the ground can have a good crack at sorting out information from disinformation.
1991	That information is sent to tactical in control stations to produce guidance for artillery and missiles — the American army's new tactical missile system has been designed to operate as part of such a set-up, hitting targets more than 100km (60 miles) off.
1991	Not all are in the front line.
1991	Desert Storm, with its thousands of sorties a day, could have been planned without (the Schlieffen plan launched the first world war with sweat and brainpower, little more); but allow the plans to be fine-tuned and to be altered quickly.
1991	And some find their niche as boffins, designing ever-fancier gadgets.
1991	The F-117A, the ‘stealth fighter’, is a product of .
1991	In the 1970s, when it was designed, were hard put to work out how to minimise the radar reflected from curved surfaces — so the F-117A is made up of flat ones.
1991	Actions against the biggest American firms are rare — so rare as to make the FTC's current investigation of the business practices of Microsoft in software a real surprise.
1991	But, in the days of simulations, it surely makes little sense to crank the whole military-industrial complex up to producing a great fleet of YF-22s.
1991	If a Toshiba breaks down in America, the chances are that it will be mended by a Vietnamese engineer in California.
1991	Every one of many variations of the proposed tax went from the Treasury team — Mr Lamont; Sir Terence Burns, shortly to become permanent secretary there; and Andrew Edwards, its local-government guru — to be crunched through the environment department's .
1991	This partly explains why the review took the time it did, since the can spend nearly four days running a full set of figures.
1991	Ma Bell is prepared to pay so much because the firm's chairman, Robert Allen, is convinced that the and telecommunications industries are converging.
1991	Telephone switches are just big in disguise.
1991	Companies that use have been connecting them to each other for a decade, often using AT&T's telephone lines.
1991	It set up its division in 1984, as soon as it was allowed to.
1991	But making and marketing require a different set of skills: manufacturing efficiently, shipping products rapidly and then providing complicated technical support to finicky business customers.
1991	Though the technology that telecoms and firms use is similar, success in telecoms services does not necessarily bring success in the , or telecoms-hardware, business.
1991	Analysts reckon AT&T has invested $2 billion in its division since its birth, and that it is still losing $200m a year.
1991	Even when the purchase of NCR is complete, will still make up less than a fifth of AT&T's business.
1991	And here lies a contradiction at the heart of AT&T's original business, even before it tried to get into .
1991	AT&T's hostile bid for NCR turned a lot friendlier when Ma Bell met the company's asking price of $110 a share, though none of the $7.5 billion will be in cash.
1991	Meanwhile, as Europe's electronics companies demand that the European Commission protect them from Japanese competition, NEC is thinking of taking a stake in Groupe Bull, France's loss-making state-owned maker.
1991	Markets that were kept apart by government barriers, by blockages to information or by differing perceptions of a borrower's creditworthiness have been bridged by free flows, by and by a vast new trade in the swapping of debt.
1991	Free, cross-border flows at the touch of a key: this suggests unreliable ‘hot’ money rather than the loyal cold sort.
1991	Think of the manufacturing industries fighting head to head with Japan — cars, semiconductors, , telecommunications.
1991	buffs have a different phrase for it: garbage in, garbage out.
1991	The world's biggest maker still needs this division as a supplier, but was failing to run it profitably; so it is selling it to its managers and Clayton & Dubilier, leaving them to run it but still with a supply contract to IBM.
1991	The model at Britain's Meteorological Office predicts that the fires' effect on this year's monsoon will probably not stand out against the monsoon's annual variations.
1991	(The Tories' has produced a range of later options.
1991	America's buffs spent $110m last year buying magazines about their machines, and makers another $670m advertising in them.
1991	Today the company boasts 150 titles in 49 different countries, each dealing with a slightly different aspect of the trade.
1991	His predecessor's pet title, News, closed after running up big losses.
1991	According to Communications Trends, a market-research firm, Ziff held 37% of the American market for magazines in 1990, up from 34% the previous year.
1991	IBM and AT&T, America's behemoth and telephone companies, announced they are adapting their network-management systems so that customers can connect them more easily.
1991	Fujitsu of Japan bought 80% of Britain's biggest maker last year.
1991	Groupe Bull, France's state-owned firm, announced pre-tax losses for 1990 of over FFr6 billion ($1 billion).
1991	Her father answered: ‘I believe in the Creator's .’
1991	The word was peculiar, and so was the word Creator, for her father would never say God, but always Creator, as if he wanted to limit God's significance to his engineering activity.
1991	The Creator's : but how could a person communicate with a ?
1991	Agnes thought to herself: The Creator loaded a detailed program into the and went away.
1991	Yet it is one thing to be abandoned by the God of our forefathers and another is to be abandoned by God the inventor of a cosmic .
1991	To load a program into the : this does not mean that the future has been planned down to the last detail, that everything is written ‘up above’.
1991	The did not plan an Agnes or a Paul, but only a prototype known as a human being, giving rise to a large number of specimens which are based on the original model and haven't any individual essence.
1991	Agnes asked herself, and she thought: When we thrust out into the world just as we are, we first have to identify with that particular throw of the dice, with that accident organized by the divine : to get over our surprise that precisely this (what we see facing us in the mirror) is our self.
1991	She wondered what kind of existence the programmed after death.
1991	If the 's field of activity is limited to our planet, and if our fate depends on it alone, then we cannot count on anything after death except some permutation of what we have already experienced in life; we shall again encounter similar landscapes and beings.
1991	But there is a second possibility: beyond our planet's , there may be others that are its superior.
1991	In the space of four weeks, not only has the car been broken into, but the Health Centre has been robbed of hardware for our new cardiovascular screening programme, I have been threatened with violence in my consulting-room for refusing to prescribe opiates and my home has been burgled at 5.00 am by a seventeen-year-old wielding a club hammer.
1991	If the developers of these walled refuges were bold enough to include small industries, perhaps also offering to connect young executives by and fax to the outside world, the inhabitants of clusterland would never have to leave home at all.
1991	I would be fed into the police , where it would join the details already stored by the hundreds of other crossings we had made.
1991	(Matthew 2.2) This is an ancient question, but as up to date as the latest .
1991	Now had been added to natural incompetence, and Cyril the Systems was on the edge of a nervous breakdown.
1991	There were market-research questionnaires, trial subscriptions and a free assessment of your perfect man from a agency.
1991	The perfect man the turned out would almost certainly be an extremely common old-age pensioner.
1991	These hospitals all have now.’
1991	That last evening, as unable to settle I wandered round the house, the within which insists on running hither and thither matching like with like (laying its finds before us like a cat presenting a dead mouse) now threw up the words of a hymn from long ago.
1991	They gave a spurious reassurance: so friendly, so warm, so protective (‘…but God is round about me, and shall I be afraid?’ the within suggested  doubtfully, but I rejected the idea at once.
1991	A typical provenance project could involve analysis of a hundred to two hundred samples of pottery and it would clearly be impossible to make sense of all two thousand to four thousand quantitative elemental analyses without the use of modern multivariate statistical programs.
1991	, and the programs that control them, rely no less on the past creativity of mathematicians.
1991	The youngster of today who comes to grips for the first time with a personal little imagines the wealth of mathematical inventiveness invested in the design of the software and in the electronic circuitry itself.
1991	science, though one of the younger disciplines, relies like so many others on mathematics, and this happy relationship works both ways.
1991	Increasingly, the practical application of many mathematical techniques depends on the 's ability to carry out calculations with faultless accuracy at ever more extraordinary speeds.
1991	Applied mathematics and science are distinct disciplines, but they are now locked for ever in an inseparable embrace.
1991	For example, neutron activation analysis (see glossary), one of the techniques used to determine the composition of ancient ceramics, would be impossible without a program, since the calculations required are so complex and extensive that not even the most resilient individual armed with a pocket calculator could possibly complete them in a single lifetime.
1991	A less obvious aspect of the power of mathematics and science derives from the abstract, or generalised, nature of the procedures they employ; in solving one problem one is often, perhaps unwittingly, solving another apparently unrelated problem.
1991	A long-term solution to the management of huge collections of material is to enter details of all objects and their whereabouts into a database and to keep the information up to date thereafter.
1991	Such a project began in the British Museum in 1978, using a originally purchased for scientific work, but now transferred to a ‘super-minicomputer’ which runs powerful database software.
1991	To record such information for over five million objects is  clearly an immense undertaking which will continue well into the future, and entails considerable staff costs, powerful hardware and highly sophisticated software (see Chapter 1 0).
1991	All the information about an object is stored on the within what is called a hierarchical database, meaning simply that the information is broken down from broad categories such as‘geography’ into more specific ones such as ‘continent’, ‘country’, ‘region’and so on .
1991	Such structures are indeed referred to in science jargon as trees, and the technical literature abounds with pleasing arboreal metaphors such as roots, branches and leaves.
1991	By progressing from the sampling of collections to storing details of every object in a database, we have therefore simply transferred our allegiance from sampling theory to graph theory.
1991	From this point of view, the capacity of an electronic for tireless number-crunching should have something to offer.
1991	By attempting to imitate a human cognitive process, however, we are straying into the notoriously difficult sub-discipline of science known as artificial intelligence, and anyone working in this field would agree that many of its problems have yet to be solved.
1991	It is nevertheless of interest to look at one approach to such problems, since this area of research demonstrates, perhaps as well as any, how a close liaison between mathematics and science can be of service to the museum archaeologist.
1991	These fingerprints are in such a form that they can be easily compared one with another; that is to say the can calculate a measure of ‘shape difference’ between any two axes.
1991	In other words, can a imitate the process the archaeological expert carries out by eye when he constructs his standard typologies?
1991	The problem can be solved, but quite complex mathematics and a are required to solve it.
1991	The then does the hard mathematics and produces a diagram showing broad groupings of similar material (fig. 9.3).
1991	The allows us to make almost unlimited calculations, and indeed the larger the sample the better for statistical applications.
1991	What do and mathematics have to offer us here?
1991	studies of cemeteries abound, and range from surveys of a number of cemeteries and their geographical distribution to very detailed studies of an individual one.
1991	These graves and their contents had been studied long before became commonplace, and gave indications of two different burial rites: one involving burial with pig bones and metal goods but no pottery, and the other involving sheep bones and pottery.
1991	When features are as obvious as this, one hardly needs a to detect them.
1991	If all the data are initially entered into a database, the power of a database management system makes it easy to present different views of the data to the researcher, allowing more subtle and complex associations to emerge.
1991	information such as basic measurements of bone dimensions can be added to the 's database and discriminant analysis can then predict the group that is most probably correct.
1991	This procedure is akin to the methods now being used for computerised medical diagnosis, where the symptoms are fed in to the and the most likely illness is predicted.
1991	We can see, then, how help to develop and extend information, as well as merely acting as the storage medium.
1991	The application of technology in the excavation process itself has been a major area of growth over the last decade.
1991	Personal are now commonly found in site huts, even in remote locations where they can be powered by car batteries.
1991	Modern scientific excavation techniques yield prodigious quantities of data, and the abilities of even quite simple personal database programs to organise, tabulate and sort this information offer the archaeologist very obvious benefits.
1991	Such software is rapidly becoming the archaeologist's workhorse, both during the excavation process in circumstances where immediate feedback is desirable, and afterwards to help in preparing the final published report.
1991	Nevertheless, provided that it is possible to make informed assumptions about the likely shapes and sizes of buildings at particular periods, a can be programmed to search for particular configurations of post-holes that might result from such a structure and ‘peel them off’, to reveal a simplified picture of earlier building phases.
1991	At Runnymede Bridge, the has been brought in to record and check relationships between contexts and to sort them into continuous sequences, thus ultimately helping the archaeologist interpret the sequences as a record of past human activity.
1991	Modern surveying equipment such as Electronic Distance Measurement devices greatly facilitate this, not least because of their ability to store survey readings on data loggers, small electronic devices that record a large number of readings in a form that can later be easily transferred to a personal (fig. 9.8).
1991	Clearly there are few barriers to filling the site's personal with survey data, but what can be done with it?
1991	Provided that enough information was recorded at the time, we can indeed use the techniques of three-dimensional graphics to achieve this.
1991	A particular excavated level (corresponding, for example, to a bronze Age occupation floor) can be ‘modelled’ on a screen and the power of coordinate geometry embodied in a sophisticated program allows us to view it from any angle and at any elevation.
1991	Figure 9.9 shows a reconstruction of an ancient land surface.
1991	This brief survey has provided at least a taste of current applications of mathematics and in the service of museums and archaeology.
1991	It provides a forum for the sharing of ideas among archaeologists, specialists and mathematicians.
1991	Quite simply, are becoming cheaper and more powerful all the time.
1991	Nowhere is the pace of development more apparent than in graphics.
1991	True integration of text and graphical information within databases is an area of major development effort among  manufacturers, and offers great potential benefits for the curation of museum collections.
1991	Archaeological units are also being tempted by the impressive capabilities of geographic information systems, which in essence allow maps to be stored, displayed, overlaid and updated on a screen.
1991	Further in the future, laser light looks set to replace electricity itself, driving a hundred times faster than the fastest now available.
1991	Measurements taken from such a drawing allow a to compare axe shapes, and so also draw smooth and accurate reconstructions.
1991	(The axe outlines in fig. 9.2 were drawn by in this way.)
1991	9.2 left A schematic impression of part of a database of axe shapes, structured as an inverted ‘tree’.
1991	As the operator takes readings they are recorded automatically on the attached ‘datalogger’, to be transferred later to a personal (courtesy Cath Price).
1991	9.9 A with graphics software installed can process the data from a surveying instrument and reconstruct a three-dimensional impression of the land surface.
1991	It may also be argued that, provided a record is sympathetically laid out, it is more readable than many handwritten entries found in registers, where handwriting, variations in content and idiosyncrasies of style may conspire to confuse the reader.
1991	Equally, this important preliminary is vital to the success of choosing a suitable system.
1991	How, for example, should one handle the dressed fleas and their garments in terms of a record?
1991	Any word or phrase not recognised by the as being on the authority list will cause the list of available choices to be displayed.
1991	The person entering the details must then choose an option from this list and the will then add the choice to the record automatically.
1991	viruses, concrete cancer, whatever next?
1991	It's all done up in steel pins and scaffolding to hold it up, and I once saw a thing in a museum showing how it shudders when the trains go over.
1991	They've even installed closed-circuit television and so that you can see it coming round corners.
1990	Showcasing artwork influenced by chaos theory, ‘Earth Signals’ features fractal environments, performance happenings, graphics, films and ‘air ghosts’(above) created by event organiser Paul Friendlander.
1990	‘The major labels and studios will become increasingly redundant as become more accessible,’ they say.
1990	It wasn't musicians making music, it was operators.
1990	Equipped with , copiers, faxes, databases and well-trained staff, the Centre where Nicholson works assists over 2,000 clients a year.
1990	An explicit shot of Koons going down on his girlfriend as she stuffs a glass dildo into her freshly shorn pudenda — a photo to be crafted via into a 12- by 8-foot painting — is particularly repugnant.
1991	Believe it or not, even my own branch manager was unaware of changes made in the charges on my account (through , of course) by his head office and unsurprisingly, the customer — me — was never told.
1991	‘It is extraordinary how many producers have no measure of the physical and financial performances of their own flocks, or those achieved by others operating under similar conditions,’ said Mr Morgan, who operated one of three terminals used to give farmers visiting the show some ideas to improve efficiency and profit.
1991	Urban ‘thirst’ is 20.9mph, but the on-board showed a 26.9mph average for my far from leisurely 400 miles at the wheel.
1991	All the work was carried out on their .
1991	One of the ways in which the children at the school develop their skills is by keeping weather and farm records.
1991	Under the guidance of Mike Groom, the school's curriculum leader for information technology, Brewood-Wheaton Aston pupils feed the farm records and general information into a .
1991	Table 3: model illustrating operating costs of alternative disposal options, both with and without grant aid, on a mixed farm producing 10cu m of pig slurry and 6cu m of cattle slurry/day (1,500 pigs and 100 dairy cattle).
1991	He hardened his heart and turned on his , smiling acidly at the screen.
1991	Tammuz was playing a contest of cunning with his .
1991	‘Damn!’ he told his .
1991	He intended to spend the evening having intelligent conversation with his , Zambia Crevecoeur shut firmly out of his mind.
1991	‘That observation was aligned to your personal subjectivity, of course, with which I feel familiar,’ the appended.
1991	Later in the evening, Tammuz and his decided to investigate an old network tape he'd uncovered in Roirbak's huge stockpile of such material.
1991	Tammuz had dimmed the lights, put his feet up, and asked the to tune in the wall-screen.
1991	The rustling of packaging caused him to sigh and ask the to turn up the sound.
1991	Perhaps I do know your potential, through the work we've been doing, but you're not a : you have autonomy.
1991	Tammuz drew in a shuddering breath and glanced at the blinking serenely behind them.
1991	She tried to distract him as best she could, showing him how to make totems, begging Urran to let Nathan use the now and again.
1991	‘Tammuz Malamute talks to his ,’ says the hag sagely and buries the fly back in her ear.
1991	Declining the unctuous offer of the drymatic machine, he wrapped himself in a towel and sauntered through to his living room, where a sleek housed in non-reflecting black sat seductively on a complex work station.
1991	SHe'd been entertaining Nathan in Tammuz's office, messing with the .
1991	Stop thinking of her as another damn !’
1990	The list from which they are selected is held on a small on the second floor of the drab grey Cabinet Office building in Whitehall.
1991	In this short book it is not, of course, intended to provide a complete treatment of these themes, and readers more experienced in the subject will be aware that little space has been given, for example , to the potential of documentary sources or modern methods of study using and advanced statistical methods.
1989	Otherwise, we might as well all stay at home and stare at terminals.
1989	A constant bane of the conference organiser is arriving at a venue to load and unload a dozen mini , audio-visual equipment, tape recorders, packets of paper and the like, six or eight times onto trolleys, carrying them up or down steps, grazing elbows squeezing into lifts or staggering miles under their weight — all before arriving at the place where they have to be set up.
1989	There is now also a ‘’ autocue — direct projection to the screens by a word processor.
1989	It is possible to lose the entire speech off a disk.
1989	Remarkable things can be done linking projectors and so that you get composite or varied images on a wall of screens.
1989	Lasers, helium balloons, streamers, flags, dry ice, disco lights, graphics are great at election rallies or festivals but inappropriate at most serious commercial conferences.
1989	Or, ‘We've got to be high-tech, use ’ at the other.
1989	In 1979 we began pioneering the direct mail concept at constituency level with my wife Marlies at first typing and then working the word processor and .
1989	The prevailing idea then among Conservatives was that were ‘hi-falutin’ and ‘impersonal’.
1989	Fortunately the rumour began to circulate that Disraeli had used a WP and suddenly were ‘in’.
1989	There's still a long way to go, but for both the major parties in the UK, campaigning in the constituencies is now widespread.
1991	He also told O'Boyle that he had been ‘checked out’ with the government system to see if he was reputable enough to join the group.
1991	After the Tower Report was published in February 1987, and the PROF notes revealed that had passed by between the characters, the basement became home to a band of five-o'clock-shadowed Boy Scouts delighting in their own secrecy.
1991	Since McFarlane was an honourable man, North was not unduly worried when he asked him to alter official documents; and when McFarlane sat down at North's on November 18th to type in ‘additional input that was radically different from the truth’, North still considered he must have had ‘a darn good reason for not putting the straight story out’.
1991	McFarlane, former boss, eagerly kept contact with the cause on his home , aching to be part of it again: North, in reply, urged him to ‘keep the faith’.
1989	They have a piano — not a very good one!— which is connected to a .
1989	So they said, ‘Herr von Karajan apparently has a in his brain!’
1989	But it is not a .
1989	In the age of Aided Design (CAD) that is arriving, complex modes of transposition and modulation become accessible from linear to volumetric; radial to circumferential; open to closed.
1989	The programmed graded distribution in which the detail is random.
1990	But what would happen, probably, was that his spirit wife would take over the , just as she took over almost everything.
1986	One reason for being hopeful is that we now make machines which do some of the things that brains do, although we must remember that there may be important ways in which brains and existing work on different principles.
1986	People are increasingly coming to think that we want an answer which can be simulated on a .
1986	That is, we want a program which, given the map and asked ‘how should I go from A to E?’ will answer ‘A-C-D-E’.
1986	It would probably proceed as follows: from A, go to all the openings you can see; from each of those openings, go to any further openings you can see; by continuing this procedure, generate the tree of Figure 10; report the shortest sequence starting at A and ending at E. The reason for preferring a program to a verbal account (for example, the one just given), is that, when writing a program, you are forced to say exactly what you mean; if the program works, you know that there are no hidden difficulties with your explanation.
1986	For example, in writing the program outlined above, you would have some difficulty in telling the what an ‘opening’ is.
1986	programs store knowledge in both these ways.
1986	Of course, the  fact that you have written a program that will do what an animal does is no proof that the animal does it in the same way.
1986	By this, I do not mean that the animal uses neurones, whereas the uses transistors.
1986	I am concerned with the logical structure of the solution, and not with the material objects that embody that structure: in jargon, I am concerned with software, not hardware.
1986	A programmer would almost certainly get a to do it that way, but I doubt whether the brain does.
1986	In answering such questions, simulation is helpful, because you cannot simulate something you do not understand.
1986	It is not difficult to program a to do the same.
1986	I will argue, first, that we are inveterate formers of hypotheses about what we are seeing; second, that can only be programmed to see things if they are provided with suitable models; and third, that our habit of guessing what we are seeing is astonishingly successful.
1986	A picture-recognizing must be provided with the necessary set of hypotheses and rules.
1986	We can approach this question by writing programs to do a similar job, or by finding out what is the minimum information we need in order to perceive something.
1992	Fujitsu and Toshiba have followed Hitachi and IBM Japan in cutting top executives' pay following a weakening in consumer electronics and markets and a slide in profits.
1992	The Gulamalis received their rent for the first three months, then nothing for four months, and were told the was broken, the accounts were being moved, the cheque was in the post, and so on.
1992	As the dash-mounted pecks out our next job on its paper roll, Mark runs through his daily routine for me.
1992	Job three is a scatty old lady with an NS on the roll, meaning non-start, and an automatic garage door.
1992	Once I'd mastered a none-too-straightforward control panel, which looks rather like those muticoloured ever-flickering you find on the dashboard of executive cars, my test run got under way.
1992	Recently we read in this newspaper how two ‘remarkable new numbers’ had been discovered by Atomic Energy Authority scientists using a super at the Harwell laboratory.
1992	A manager with the Scottish Examination Board, Mr Fisher chuckles at the thought that he is ‘fighting my boss's boss’.
1992	In the age of the , they would be better off in Croydon or Nottingham.
1992	Sentiment has not been helped by sharp profit downgrading from such pillars of Japanese business as Sony, Matsushita and Pioneer, though group Fujitsu recently said it expected current profits to be modestly increased.
1992	Wanless says a can be programed to assess personal customers.
1992	Back in the mid-1970s, an American scientist called John Holland hit on the idea of using the theory of evolution to solve notoriously difficult problems in science.
1992	In just a few minutes, the encoded gibberish on the screen starts to turn into plain English.
1992	IN THIS week of the election, we can expect to see Peter Snow doing his impersonation of John Cleese, with lots of statistics produced by accompanied by the timeless phrase —‘it's just a bit of fun’.
1992	I hope he doesn't suffer the same fate as those who first used a to predict an election's outcome.
1992	In 1952, CBS Television used Univac, the first commercial system in America, to do a Peter Snow for the Stevenson-Eisenhower election battle.
1992	By midnight, its masters had thrown in the towel, and put out the 's original forecast.
1992	Then the identity and details of any information passed on will be logged on secure files in a numbers code.
1992	ACCORDING to one customer of Barclays Bank in Guildford, managers have been following freezing clients around with fan heaters, explaining: ‘It's because the heating is controlled by a central .’
1992	The temperature controls of some Barclays branches are controlled from central in London and Coventry.
1992	Europe wants shops to give information on the efficiency of all white goods, televisions and hi-fis, , ovens, lights and other household appliances down to the smallest toaster.
1992	Of the 300 electronics plants in ‘Silicon Glen’ an overwhelming number are foreign-owned; the potential for future losses in the competitive industry is great.
1992	Tomorrow, IBM is launching OS/2 2.0, the new version of its OS/2 operating software for personal .
1992	Both companies claim the new versions make personal easier to use with icons — graphic representations of objects — on the screen to let people visualise what they are doing.
1992	IBM's OS/2 launch manager Pat James says she is addressing the high street sales outlets, such as Dixons and the superstore in Croydon.
1992	James said that some copies will be at this week's Which Show in Birmingham.
1992	Last week Cyrix, a small, four-year-old Texas company, became the latest challenger to Intel's technological dominance of the $50 billion-a-year worldwide personal (PC) industry.
1992	Intel invented the guts of modern during the late Sixties when it developed the DRAM memory chip, the SRAM memory chip and the microprocessor.
1992	‘If this ends Intel's monopoly and forces prices down, then its good news for PC manufacturers and for consumers,’ industry analyst Howard Meredith, of market research firm Romtec, said.
1992	The Daily Telegraph program compares each poll's current findings with the 1987 election results, and calculates how many seats each party would win on the basis of a uniform national swing applied equally to every constituency (leaving out those in Northern Ireland).
1992	In the electronic boxes, trains are monitored on personal which can call up any section of track in seconds.
1992	Which ?:
1992	Yet software house Microsoft recently caused quite a stir in circles by announcing that it is using real people, working for real companies, to test its software products.
1992	It is part of a drive towards ‘ability’ in systems, a belated acknowledgement that designers should address not just what the system should do but also who will use it, how frequently, what tasks they must perform, what environment it will be used in (eg quiet or noisy, light or dark), and what the critical success factors are (eg speed or accuracy).
1992	Which ?:
1992	PERSONAL are cheap, and getting cheaper.
1992	Not even IBM, the world's largest company by far, is immune.
1992	It promises a hardware and software design which is equally suitable for small portable and large multi-user systems.
1992	If it succeeds, it could turn the personal business upside down, by delivering what the PC always promised but has never quite achieved: the ability to work where and how you please, no matter what you are using or how limited your knowledge.
1992	Whichever design wins, it is certain that personal will continue to shrink, while retaining almost full compatibility with desktop and larger systems.
1992	Which ?:
1992	Which ?:
1992	The old Microsoft Disk Operating System — MS DOS — now used by some 80 million PCs, is too limited for the complex tasks demanded of today.
1992	Which ?:
1992	‘ENTER a superstore in the U.S.,’ says Martin Nielson, chief executive of the Business Superstore Ltd, ‘and you walk into a forest of high steel.
1992	Some are already experienced buyers.
1992	Unlike its only U.K. rival, Croydon's PC World, the Business Superstore sells a whole range of office products, from , to furniture and stationery.
1992	Which ?:
1992	His main means of communicating with the rest of the world is a laptop with a speech synthesiser.
1992	There is now a wide variety of special hardware and software for handicapped people, much of it designed to work with the BBC, Archimedes and IBM PC-compatible commonly used in schools, though it is equally applicable to adults.
1992	However, it is not just the severely disabled who can benefit from .
1992	He has also used in therapy with the mentally ill, and finds that learning basic PC packages, such as word processing, databases and spreadsheets, gives a great boost to their self-esteem.
1992	Disablement Advisory Service: 0742 739190; Northwest SEMERC: 061 627 4469; Aids to Communication in Education: 0865 63508; Centre for Disabled People: 071 911 5000; David Axford's helpline: 0428 656438 (6-7pm only).
1992	Peripherals: Don't waste your time talking — change something are Frankenstein's monsters.
1992	PEOPLE talk to their .
1992	Its answer is modular , or machines with elements which users can replace to improve them.
1992	Lift the lid off any and you'll be struck as much by what seems to have been left out as by what was put in.
1992	But by a quirk of technology and accounting practice, business has been more prepared to replace ageing equipment than upgrade it.
1992	Old-style Eighties' , sold with high margin and short lifespan, have long ago been cost-depreciated to zero by corporations.
1992	And when accountant agrees with technologist that the hardware is worthless, the industry waits in the wings with the next generation wonderbox.
1992	A £1,000 , several orders of magnitude more powerful than machines which cost £3,000 even five years ago, has very little profit built in for the supplier.
1992	Not only has the quality improved, but the frenzy with which we threw away 4-bit, 8-bit, and 16-bit has now reached a plateau at 32-bits.
1992	Prior to the launch of Compaq's DeskPro/M series he upgraded from 286s to 386SX by shuffling the older machines on to secretaries' desks.
1992	Peripherals: Now you can let the CD-ROM do the walking
1992	CD-ROM systems have made it much easier for anyone with minimal literacy to get at information of all types.
1992	The data can be accessed by a dedicated machine or an ordinary personal with an inbuilt CD-ROM drive.
1992	Personal manufacturers have not waited for new standards but have begun to build CD-ROM drives into their products.
1992	Paddy Roache, general manager of Philips Interactive Media Systems, says people will soon come to regard a CD-ROM drive as a standard part of a personal .
1992	A disk will take up to 100 photos, which can be displayed on a television by a Photo-CD player or on a screen by a machine with a CD-ROM XA standard drive.
1992	Colour films can also be re-touched, edited and introduced into personal programs.
1992	Peripherals: Smuggling in the as a CD player George Black takes a looks at multimedia, which may be the ace that leads the industry out of slump
1992	THE industry is pinning its hopes of a revival on the emergence of multi-media technology.
1992	Many applications of the technology are starting to emerge, divided between games, educational programs and professional uses.
1992	Multimedia is bringing together companies from diverse sectors, including the business, publishing, broadcasting and consumer electronics, making them new collaborators or competitors.
1992	Spokesman Andrew Ball says it is ‘smuggling the into people's homes disguised as a CD player.’
1992	Philips introduced its first multimedia personal this month at Cebit, the information technology offshoot of the Hanover Fair.
1992	Big companies have long seen the advantages of training by but have thought technology immature.
1992	High resolution images on the screen can now be reproduced by printer far more accurately.
1992	My is still analysing the guest lists to determine whether a Sir Denis Compton for the Tories cancels out a Melvyn Bragg for Labour.
1992	Long before the advent of robots and personal , he invented a race of super-intelligent robots.
1992	SHARES in Psion leapt from 116p to 135p yesterday after the unlisted securities market-quoted maker announced a strong first quarter recovery in sales and profits on the back of its new Series 3 pocket .
1992	Launched in September after a four-year development programme, the new weighs 265 grams and is described by Psion chairman David Potter as ‘the Walkman of the world’.
1992	Shares in personal maker Psion jumped 19 to 135p after the company held its dividend, despite 1991 losses and issued an upbeat statement about trading prospects.
1992	On an average of last night's three polls, the Daily Telegraph's projection gives Labour 310 seats in the new House of Commons, the Tories 294 and the Liberal Democrats 23.
1992	can improve your image
1992	Using a technique called automated caricaturing, Dr Phil Benson, of St Andrew's University, Scotland, altered photographs of students to enhance their most and least attractive facial features.
1992	He said the technique had important forensic applications.
1992	But St Ives has won more than its fair share of new business — such as the new PC Magazine title — and although magazine profits were down, that was offset by impressive market share gains in financial printing.
1992	A analysis of Gallup's figures gives the Tories 314 seats (12 short of an overall majority), Labour 297, the Liberal Democrats 16 and others 24.
1992	ICL, the company 80 p.c. -owned by Fujitsu of Japan, is pushing back its re-flotation timetable because profits are under pressure in a tougher market.
1992	A 5 p.c. reduction in gross margins on lower-margin desk-top products and the weakness in the market were blamed for last year's downturn but ICL says its share of the British market rose by one point to 19 p.c.
1992	The Daily Telegraph's indicates that, if Gallup's figures are reproduced in the polling booths today, the Tories on a uniform national swing would hold 314 seats in the Commons.
1992	Adjusting the program's results to allow for the possibilities of differential turnout, additional SNP strength in Scotland and local variations in Liberal Democrat strength suggests the Parliament elected today may be composed as follows: Conservatives 319, Labour 282, Liberal Democrats 22, SNP seven, Plaid Cymru three and others 18.
1992	We had 24 when we opted out; now we have 150.
1992	And Alan Yentob's channel provided relief from the predictions with a Comic Strip (BBC2) confection starring Adrian Edmondson as John Major and Robbie Coltrane as Mr Speaker, which showed just about everybody in a bad light.
1992	Partners leaving the five-man practice were claimed to have raided records and accounts and waged a campaign against Dr Williams, the senior partner, who is staying with the practice.
1992	Although the final result may not not be known until mid-morning, predictions indicated Mr Major was on his way back to Downing Street with a small majority.
1992	For me, my Mont Blanc is a reminder that can't do everything and an incentive to improve my handwriting.
1992	Voters could make their preferences known at home by punching a button and — since count no less swiftly in the Western Isles than Westminster North — all results could be published simultaneously, guaranteeing an early night for Messrs Paxman, Dimbleby, and Sissons.
1992	We might be able to pay for Jason Donovan, but only by cancelling the new stuff…’
1992	BARCLAYS Bank has spent more than £5m equipping its 1,500 sales staff with laptop it claims will limit the likelihood of clients being given unsuitable advice.
1992	The , called Supercasp, provide ‘fact finds’ which use details about the client's financial circumstances to produce immediate forecasts and calculate illustrations.
1992	A spokesman for the bank said the will ensure that clients are not sold unsuitable products.
1992	Kavalek has the latest software to analyse Karpov's play and has assembled a database of 260,000 Grandmaster games which includes almost every move Karpov has played.
1992	Short spent his last Saturday afternoon in London's Tottenham Court Road buying a Notebook on which he will plot Karpov's downfall from his room at the Hotel Anibal, the venue.
1992	Our repayment was to leave these happy rural innocents hankering after the tacky charms of Gameboy (the mobile game).
1992	Business-class lounges, with fax machines, photocopiers, stations, are an innovation on some Sealink Stena sailings; for 1992, P & O offers Club Class on all its routes.
1992	As I drove further down the road there were thrown out on to the pavement and whole window frames completely blown out into the street.
1992	With David Dimbleby and Peter Sissons occupying curvy command modules jutting out over a sea of screens and flashing lights, it seemed rather like a cross between the deck of the Starship Enterprise and an Italian disco.
1992	ITN's secret weapon was much more advanced, an experiment never tried before: it was a simulation of the chamber of the House of Commons, with John Suchet walking around inside it.
1992	SCIENTISTS are testing a revolutionary technique for diagnosing medical conditions by mimicking the brain processes of human consultants.
1992	The breakthrough follows research into so-called neural networks, in which ordinary are instructed to behave like the human brain, enabling them to be ‘taught’ to solve problems, rather than be laboriously programmed.
1992	A conventional is turned into a ‘thinking machine’ by programming it to behave as if it consisted of a collection of brain cells — neurons — which will respond to a stimulus.
1992	The is then trained to become an expert in medical diagnosis in exactly the same way as a medical student: by being presented with lots of case histories, and being told what the correct diagnosis is.
1992	After hundreds of training cycles, the arrives at its own rules for reaching the same diagnosis as its human mentor.
1992	British scientists at a conference last week, organised by the Institute of Physical Sciences in Medicine and held at the Royal Marsden Hospital, London, described neural able to diagnose a host of medical conditions — from heart problems to eye defects — with up to 98 per cent accuracy.
1992	Dr Michael Turega, of the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology, has worked with a casualty ward consultant to produce a desk-top consisting of just 35 ‘brain cells’ to give reliable diagnosis of chest pain in patients.
1992	The UMIST was trained by feeding it details of 70 patients, such as pulse rate, temperature, age and data on previous heart problems.
1992	The UMIST automatically deduced rules which enabled its ‘brain cells’ to respond to similar cases with a level of diagnostic skills comparable to a consultant.
1992	When put to work on new patient data, the neural reached the same diagnosis as the consultant in almost 90 per cent of cases.
1992	A team at the University of Dundee reported on a neural that checks cervical smears containing up to 200,000 cells and decides whether they are abnormal or not with 96 per cent accuracy.
1992	Researchers at the University of Warwick are training a neural to examine brain-scanner images to recognise the symptoms of mental diseases.
1992	But since neural can carry out highly skilled tasks tirelessly, they will inevitably replace humans in some medical tasks.
1992	The revolution has come about through the application of science.
1992	Touch-operated terminals are placed at strategic points allowing us, quite literally, to have the ancient world at our fingertips.
1992	Confronted with a bronze picture, we can locate its image on the relevant screen and, having read its precise history, proceed to learn about tableware in general, the social system of Pompeii, and even the precise recipes of the time.
1992	This ability to summon up images, both photographic and diagrammatic, and explanatory texts within a matter of seconds is quite hypnotic, and very much in line with the television mind-set of the generation.
1992	It offered a 7.5 per cent discount on exam fees, free analysis of results and cut-price management consultancy and training services from a private company.
1992	Shards of glass were still falling 12 hours after the blast and had been blown on to the pavement.
1992	A spokesman said: ‘We have lost nothing as far as our records are concerned and there is no need for policy holders to be concerned.
1992	Our centre is in a different building.’
1992	‘We are asking staff who have not been given another location to turn up at their nearest branch, where a desk and terminal will be provided for them.’
1992	The pay of David Kershaw, 30, from Merseyside, a locally-hired programmer at Fujitsu is the same as that of Japanese colleagues — which he describes as average because, he says, ‘the basic pay is so low you end up putting in lots of overtime to bring your income up to the level in England.’
1992	City: post
1992	TrueType fonts can also be faster as they have better access to the 's memory.
1992	ELONEX, a British supplier of , is about to be one of the first to deliver the latest and fastest 33MHz 80386SX microprocessor made by AMD.
1992	Together with a 50MB hard disk, 2MB of memory, Super VGA colour monitor, mouse, DOS and windows the new machine will become Elonex's entry-level up-gradeable , with a price tag of about £925.
1992	Price cutting is rife in the industry with Elonex cutting prices three times this year already.
1992	The latest reduction has taken the PC-420X a 20MHz 80486SX to under £1,000. (081 452 4444.)
1992	In fact Intel, an American company, produced all the microprocessor chips (the brain of the ) for every Amstrad personal , and until recently most other manufacturers too.
1992	It has also encouraged manufacturers which use the Intel family of processors to proclaim that in advertising.
1992	However, the ‘Intel inside’ has now become Intel outside as Intel will manufacture a range of , using the 486SX and DX processors, for Amstrad.
1992	UNISYS is the best-kept secret in the industry, at least its customers say so.
1992	One of the world's top 10 manufacturers, Unisys was created in 1987 out of the merger of two smaller companies, Burroughs and Sperry.
1992	Unisys concentrated on selling large proprietary mainframe , which cost several million pounds, and have a gross profit margin of 80 per cent.
1992	In addition, he pointed out that the price/performance ratio has changed by a factor of 6,000 in the past few years: ‘If the car industry had had the same change that the industry has experienced since 1960, a car that cost $10,000 in 1960 would now be sold for $1,’ he said.
1992	This year, the company intends to move further in the direction of networking and professional services, which is where Braun believes there is still market growth.
1992	TENNIS umpiring is about to improve with the help of technology.
1992	Since resuming his quest in Scotland the following weekend, Edwards, who installs software for Coventry City Council, is used to the obvious question: why?
1992	Prof Oesterhelt said that bacteriorhodopsin could be of use in its own right, in a prototype ‘biological .’
1992	Offices of the Levi jeans company and the firm, Casio, were being checked yesterday for structural damage.
1992	But when BT introduced its service, it also brought in a charge of 43p per inquiry and, as a matter of policy, would not give addresses.
1992	It occupies the stream of airwaves that most homes use for their videos and personal .
1992	To calculate sales of rival grocery brands, AGB has a ‘Superpanel’ of several thousand households that use terminals to record their purchases.
1992	By allowing ourselves to be forced to carry these cards for the convenience of the state, we will be acknowledging that we are at the disposition of the state and its .
1992	WALL Street roared to a new record yesterday on the back of better-than-expected first quarter profits at giant International Business Machines and hopes of lower interest rates.
1992	Capita Group, the management services company best known for collecting poll tax and operating TV licence detector vans but which makes most of its money operating for local authorities, has been given a new lease of life by John Major's re-election.
1992	saves man from blaze
1992	A disabled man who is unable to speak typed out a message on his to call the fire brigade when he woke to find a candle had caused a small fire in his bedroom.
1992	There is a fire’ into his which is linked to emergency services.
1992	A in the same building can cause interference.
1992	City: Apple suit failure lifts US shares
1992	SHARES in American companies Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard soared yesterday after a judge rejected the bulk of a $5½ billion (£3 billion) lawsuit filed by one of their rivals, Apple .
1992	Federal Judge Vaughn Walker dismissed Apple's claim that the popular display graphics on its Macintosh range had been copied by the two firms.
1992	After a quiet few months, systems group Vistec sprang to life, gaining 2 to 17p.
1992	‘Maybe I find work in .’
1992	Yesterday Miss Stott's grandparents said they believed she and her boyfriend, Peter Ellis, originally from Tyneside but working as a analyst in New Zealand for the past 18 months, had gone on the three-week holiday in order to get engaged and to share their love of jazz.
1988	Similar courses were provided for Hoffman Manufacturing Company, Chelmsford, from spring 1957 and for English Electric at Stevenage from autumn 1958; by the end of 1961 no less than eight firms were on the list, among them De Havilland, Imperial Chemical Industries and International and Tabulators.
1981	Due to the grassroots attention to detail, and the extensive preparatory groundwork, the field research for the study was completed relatively quickly, several months after the funding was finally approved, and the Task Force turned its attention to the organisation and analysis of the data.
1985	The extremely small interest in both distance learning and learning through programmes was perhaps predictable.
1985	A committee meeting of one large co-operative was attended by the author at which the managers explained the proposed introduction in 1986 of a link-up available to all members.
1981	Although these techniques developed by Sibbald et al(25) using a programme to determine the optimum allocation of land to agriculture and forestry make it possible to reach a more objective decision about the allocation of land to agriculture or forestry in an integrated scheme we, as yet , know little or nothing about the impact of agriculture or forest development on rural communities.
1990	The guests greedily snuffed cocaine, ate platefuls of designer salad, listened to Amelia's Jean-Michel Jarre CDs, smoked ordinary cigarettes and weedy joints, and talked about cars and mortgage rates and money and dry rot and Eastern Europe and and their weight and Christmas and sex.
1990	The salesman suggested they play ‘Twenty Questions’ or ‘I Spy’, but a glance from Skinner shut him up.
1990	At the end of the line was the salesman, dressed up as the Queen of Hearts.
1990	Performing this piece was as complicated as launching a space shuttle, involving synchronised systems, traditional orchestral instruments, African drums and as many technicians as trained musicians.
1990	There were human elements involved, and that would give the piece an immediacy, but so much of it was pre-programmed, with tapes played and sounds conjured by infallible , that most of the work was already done.
1990	Cameron wanted to give him a , but Alexia prevailed and soon the house was full of twangs and scales again.
1990	Those advertisements were still there, plugging temp agencies, breath fresheners, dating, a lurid paperback about anthropophagous slugs, holiday firms…
1992	.
1992	Manufacturers have been particularly active in finding new permanent magnets, spurred both by the cobalt crisis in the late 1970s and by the need to reduce the weight of the materials — dozens of magnets are hidden away in cars, electronic devices, disc drives etc .
1992	They are fully controlled, from plasma ignition to results printout.
1992	The two channel version of the Chromatography Server provides 1 Mb of RAM for data storage in the event of network or host malfunction.
1992	The Shimadzu CS9001PC controlled scanning densitometer has all the major features of the Shimadzu CS9000 with the added benefits of direct control.
1992	General Controls and Automation , Co Dublin, has appointed Isis Products , Bradford, to handle its range of intrinsically safe for use in hazardous areas.
1992	IVCO Process Valves will be known as IPV, the specialist process valves division of BSS, and together with AMS, the specialist pump division of BSS, will process documentation through a central to improve customer service.
1992	Also new was the FT-Raman spectroscopy accessory for the Research Grade 800 System, the 680D advanced mini , the IR micro S /SIRM scanning IR microscope and an MCT detector for the 205 Routine FTIR system.
1992	These are two valuable chapters on stereoselective syntheses, and a useful account of elementary assisted methods is included.
1992	chemistry M. Marsili
1992	chemistry is an all embracing title that leaves the reader anticipating what is to follow.
1992	I was surprised, therefore, on starting to read this book, to find that there were three introductory chapters with sections on Man and and The as a laboratory as well as the more intriguing chemistry and human psychology and Problem solving and artificial intelligence .
1992	At this stage, having read through a brief overview of generic hardware and boolean algebra as well as the author's personal views on how various chemists approach and the differences between ‘computational’ and ‘semantic’programs, I am left wondering at whom this book is aimed.
1992	Running this through the sophisticated models for atmospheric chemistry that now exist, the group calculates that some 50 000 tonnes pa of ethane or propane would have to be injected into the stratosphere to mop up the free chlorine created each Antarctic spring.
1992	Perhaps this is one experiment that had better remain a simulation, at least for now.
1992	Polymer Laboratories is supplying several thermal analysers including a simultaneous thermal analyser and a dielectric thermal analyser, as well as a software package for operation and data analysis.
1992	To this end, the analytical department is designing on-line analysers,eg on-line gas chromatography, which can analyse products and intermediates in ‘real time’, and if part of the process does not attain the quality required the will work out the modifications needed before the process can continue.
1992	New operatives are routinely seconded from their normal jobs to learn the techniques required for the new plant operations.
1992	However, control has been added to a significant number of reactors (the first were installed in 1975).
1992	Standard features include true multichannel detection, full control and upgradability throughout the range.
1992	The company has also introduced the GBC 918 UV-Vis spectrophotometer — a fully-featured double beam system controlled by an external IBM PS/2 or AT compatible offering full colour graphics and complete data storage.
1992	T A Instruments has introduced the Thermal Analyst 2200, a controller/data analyser, based on an IBM PS/2 Model 90SX 486 .
1992	Both systems offer continuous monitoring of alarm modules with data-logging and full communication between the system and the host .
1992	PCLab is a new controlled chemical reaction system from Spectrum Services .
1992	The system consists of an IBM PC compatible linked to a reactor assembly, control valves, balances, temperature and pH probes and a peristaltic pump system.
1992	No longer limited to solo celebration and practical experiment, they have the ‘networked knowledge’ of a multitude of colleagues in chemistry, physics, mathematics and engineering, who provide a dazzling range of aids.
1992	Today, the chemist looking at — or for — a complex chemical structure or reaction can ‘see’ it on a screen.
1992	And, in many ways, by a chemist with little if any experience.
1992	TRIPOS' LabVision™ software makes easy-to-use, quick-to-learn visualisation   and discovery software available on workstations and desktop for laboratory scientists.
1992	TRIPOS offers scientific software for most personal to meet a wide range of research needs.
1992	NITRO R — TRIPOS' interactive interface between DOS-compatible or Macintosh II personal and SYBYL or LabVision running on a host CPU;
1992	ChemPrint™ — Scientific sketching/drawing input software for DOS-compatible personal .
1992	CSC Chem3D/Plus ™ — Scientific sketching/drawing programs for the Macintosh II line of desktop ;
1992	Nemesis is one of Oxford Molecular's first products developed through collaboration with researchers, providing molecular modelling to users of desktop (currently IBM PC compatibles and Apple   Macintosh).
1992	Pimms provides a graphical molecular modelling interface to Oxford Molecular's specialist software on workstation .
1992	Ideally,ab initio molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) charges would be calculated but this would take days of time.
1992	Polygen Molecular Simulations is an established leader in the development of molecular modelling software, formed by the merger of Polygen Corporation and Molecular Simulations Inc (including Cambridge Molecular Design) and serving the largest customer base in the Assisted Molecular Design (CAMD) market.
1992	BIOSYM Technologies Inc. is an acknowledged leader in the provision of aided molecular design (CAMD) software.
1992	By using simulations, researchers can rapidly acquire a body of knowledge not previously available to them through traditional laboratory methods, and explore chemical events that would otherwise be too dangerous, speculative or costly to pursue.
1992	Pople is widely known for his contributions to bonding theory and the development of programs in quantum mechanics.
1992	The years in the US saw the development of Pople's Gaussian series of programs, which underpin so much of the theoretical work on chemical bonding.
1992	There is no doubt that these perceptions have altered radically in the past 20 years, with the improvements in power needed for solving real problems (see Box 1).
1992	With these riches of power at their fingertips, it still rankles with the quantum fraternity that the molecules which they can accurately subject to quantum description remain at only 2–20 electron systems.
1992	The application of quantum mechanical methods to the understanding of molecular properties requires a detailed algorithm or program to translate the maths into an instruction suitable for a digital .
1992	A new age in chemistry, where the problem of measuring some molecular property could be resolved by pushing a few keys on a , has not materialised — the reason is that ab initio calculation for any but the simplest of systems remain beyond the reach of the most advanced .
1992	simulated graphics of these species show electron density delocalised across three centres.
1992	Ab initio calculations and analysis have been extensively used to demonstrate acceptable correlations between theoretical and experimental results.
1992	The chemical information is distributed in the form if direct output from the program, avoiding transcription errors, and is in a form that can be used as a direct input into another for additional processing.
1992	Access to it via searches has been made relatively straightforward.
1992	The complete results of the final testing of each product are stored in files, from which a certificate of analysis is generated.
1992	Fluka Glossop is in continual contact with Fluka Buchs by , phone and fax so that immediate information is available on stock levels, plus a rapid-access service to the full technical expertise of one of Europe's major chemical manufacturing organisation.
1992	Ball & Stick is a three dimensional molecular graphics program for Macintosh (Mac Plus or later) aiming to provide publication-quality images of models constructed from library fragments or using coordinates from databases, calculations or experiment.
1992	Anyone with experience of may wonder if it really is possible to ‘…produce a stunning presentation product within minutes…’— just a little optimistic, perhaps?
1992	Such limitations, however, lie in the realities of personal and not in any shortcomings of the program.
1990	Kavos has some of the hottest discos around including one of our great favourites Future Pace, much vaunted as THE best disco on the island playing the latest music, with lights and elevating roof.
1990	These allow the to determine who will do the cover for a particular day.
1990	It has been a mistake of many developments in MIS to concentrate on solutions in the form of packages such as Schools Information and Management Systems (SIMS) in the school sector or Further Education Management Information System (FEMIS) in the FE sector.
1992	introduced rights to check certain personal records held on , and supported new rights of access to a range of government records;
1992	Access to their libraries, , meetings rooms, sports halls, playing fields and swimming pools could make a big contribution to community life.
1992	With each step, we employ more workers in industries from construction and software, to high-tech engineering, printing and publishing.
1990	If we do not actually receive the money within this period, our will automatically cancel your reservation and we cannot be held responsible if that holiday is subsequently not available.
1990	You should post payment, or pay the balance to your travel agent, 10 weeks before departure to allow the payment to clear to our account, otherwise our will cancel your booking, and you would be liable to pay cancellation charges as shown in Condition (9).
1980	Pursuing, perhaps riskily, a analogy we can argue that while the body resembles the hardware of a the mind comprises the software, the programmes that analyse and organize information to produce responses to inputs.
0000	Based in Warrenpoint the company is involved in the manufacture of Cassetted Ribbons for use in typewriters, word processors, and cash registers which are currently being exported to some 27 countries.
0000	The new Cargo Terminal is totally Bonded…an extremely important attribute ensuring speedy Customs and Excise clearance, complemented by top technology in the DTI/SEP 90 system to guarantee efficient, rapid turn-around.
0000	Newly-introduced Radio Data Terminals combined with the use of bar coding has made instant, electronic entries possible and cargo clearance times have been drastically reduced.
1991	As the British have argued: ‘Tariffs push up the price of , which use semi-conductors, dampening the worldwide competitiveness of Europe's industry’.
1991	The Japanese, who are the EC's main supplier of  semi-conductors anyway, and a major player in , win despite the tariffs.
1991	On being taken over by Fujitsu, ICL was expelled from the European Trade Group and forced to leave three EC collaborative projects, yet for some reason, IBM was allowed to participate.
1991	The world has become so inter-dependent that we now see IBM Japan exporting American built in Japan to the EC.
1991	Another case is that of Bull, the French nationalised manufacturer, which acquired a 65% controlling interest in the American company, Honeywell, and then in 1989 of the microcomputer company, Zenith, to become one of the largest companies in Europe.
1991	One partial solution, of the kind that is now almost universally adopted by serious conservationists, is to construct a mathematical, or ‘model’.
1991	The is fed with all the relevant data, and ecological theory, and is then asked, ‘if we did such and such, to this lake (or river, or bay, or whatever), what effect would this have on such and such a pollutant?’
1991	Again, models (incorporating knowledge gained from previous dams) can be used to some extent to predict the likely effects of future projects.
1991	The easiest part is to work out what would happen to the waters of the lake itself; but for this, Dr Hollis had to pool information on rainfall, evaporation, the flow and salinity of the rivers, and the level, volume, and salinity of the lake, over as many years as possible (in practice thirty) and feed this into a .
1992	Before raising the anchor, he had punched the rendezvous into the Loran's ; now the radio navigation system gave Golden Girl 's position in relation to the rendezvous to within a hundred metres.
1986	A new beer store, some kitchen improvements a new central heating system and considerable redecorations were completed in 1982 and to cope with the new handicapping scheme along came an Apple at a cost of £3,000 (1985), its importance being such that the by-laws published in March 1986 included the rule that every male competitor's number was to be written on his card!
1986	(The is eventual also to deal with the finance and other Club matters).
1989	Aside from employing field officers who go out on to the streets, intelligence agencies gobble up an incredible amount of technically skilled manpower, simply to run their huge banks of , and large numbers of foreign-speaking translators.
1989	In recent years the entire MI5 registry has been transferred on to a at a Ministry of Defence office in Mount Row, Mayfair.
1989	The original system used a £25 million ICL 2960 with 100 on-line EDS-200 disc stores capable of holding 30 million separate dossiers but in 1984 (an apt year indeed) two ICL 2980 were ordered which provide enough capacity to store a 1,000-word report on every adult in Britain.
1989	Special Branch, which works closely with MI5, has its own system which keeps records on many millions of people none of whom have committed any offence (if they had they would be on the Police National ) split into 27 different groups such as‘interesting’, ‘controversial’ and ‘subversive’.
1989	This registry is in the process of being transferred, at a cost of £1.6 billion, on to what will become the country's single largest system with terminals at every DSS office throughout Britain.
1989	The man chosen to run this is 51-year-old Dr. John Spackman who previously held the rank of brigadier in the British Army running its .
1989	It will be easy to interface the new DSS with those of MI5 and Special Branch.
1989	As the years passed, telephone, telex, facsimile and data traffic all came under this original warrant, so that not a single communication enters or leaves Britain without being subject to interception by GCCS's successor, GCHQ.
1989	As the first group of pulses were directed to the satellite high above the Indian Ocean, mixed up with all the other transmissions going out to the Far East, they were snatched out of the ether by the NSA's giant aerials at Morwenstow 60 miles up the coast to the east of Goonhilly, and compared with the watch lists of ‘interesting’ numbers on their memories.
1989	In fact there are so many that without the use of sophisticated it would be impossible to monitor them all.
1989	The simplest way to program the NSA's at Morwenstow and Menwith Hill is to have them watch for specific names, addresses, telephone and telex numbers, as in the case of Kinnock's call to Turnbull.
1989	Naturally neither the NSA nor GCHQ will discuss the subject since such telephone tapping is illegal but in 1976 the NSA's Harvest system intercepted 75 million individual telephone conversations alone around the world, of which 1.8 million were considered sufficiently interesting to require further human analysis, although what happened to the information the NSA had collected and how it was shared and used remains a mystery.
1989	To try to make sense out of the vast amount of raw material intercepted each day the NSA uses that are programmed to search for key ‘trigger’ words, names, and numbers amongst the hundreds of thousands of circuits being continuously analysed.
1989	The idea that huge can by themselves produce all the necessary facts and warn when danger is near is an extremely fallacious thesis straight out of Hollywood.
1989	As a result it is overwhelmed by a mass of material that defies useful analysis and, to make matters worse, unlike the West does not have access to unlimited capacity.
1989	Back in the early 1970s the KGB was busy stealing the secrets of the IBM 360/S and 370/S .
1989	With the help of the East German Robotron factory in Dresden the Russians produced a copy called Ryad-I But 20 years later this is still not fully in use simply because Russia cannot produce enough electrical cable and connectors to link the equipment.
1991	A Land Rover Parts dealers' will only recognise RTC 3291.
1991	My concern that this might be a common fault was raised when I quoted the part number to my local Genuine Parts dealer who not only instantly recognised it, but knew how many were in stock and which bin they were stored in — and all without consulting the stores .
1970	I cannot possibly explain to a lay audience the techniques I used to study these genes — although I can tell you they involved the use of a type of radio microscope, and considerable extremely complex work — the programming alone involved almost a year's work.
1970	Much genetic data was collected from some two thousand young men and women, and using the services of two cooperating universities, I eventually selected six potential mothers.
1970	The father is known only to myself and the , and none of the young men who cooperated in giving us specimens of their sperm knew for what purpose it was given.
1970	Not like the unit we use at the university.’
1991	Having sifted through the views of countless organizations, through its technical appraisals, through assessments, it had concluded that there were just two places where it would pursue its investigations for an underground dump.
1991	Rooms were packed to the ceiling with files and photocopiers and .
1991	Knowledge of him was so slim that the magazine Private Eye even suggested mischievously that the Department of Energy might have mistakenly selected him instead of another man of the same name.
1991	This emphasized the extent to which the sheer unpredictability and perversity of a nuclear power station operator could bypass the best laid models.
1991	In the 1970s and 1980s Milan had changed again, in an equally remarkable fashion, passing early into the age of electronics and to become the undoubted economic capital of Italy.
1991	A good example comes from the industry.
1991	His was totally compatible with the machines of the brand leader IBM, but with the added advantage of being about half the price and running at a much faster speed.
1991	There was some concern amongst buffs that the Amstrad machine, unlike IBMs, didn't have an in-built cooling fan — research by Amstrad's engineers had shown that his machine ran perfectly well without one.
1991	Were you aware of many aspects of the curriculum taking place (eg science, maths, )?
1991	Setting up a template of headings on a personal including days of the week, staff meeting agenda, coming soon, etc makes preparing the news sheet even easier.
1991	Care had been taken to avoid sex stereotyping by showing both boys and girls at keyboards, leading practical science activities, engaged in cooking and also in ‘home corner’ play.
1991	There is also a great danger that the school will create unrealistic expectations, for example, raising money for an additional will not substantially increase the ‘hands on’ experience for every child.
1991	Items such as and video recorders and cameras were until recently in the non-essential category.
1991	Parents and others are usually less willing to contribute money just to swell school funds, they are much more responsive when there are clear targets at which to aim, such as an extra , video recorder, camera or curtains for the school hall.
1989	Communication will have failed if the listener does not discover which platform the train leaves from or how to load the program into the .
1989	securing responses to visual and aural stimuli,eg pictures, television, radio, , telephone , making use of audio and video recordings as appropriate;
1989	(ii) Teaching about language should encourage discussion of vocabulary that is specific to local communities — words for local places, buildings, institutions etc, and local usages such as bairn (cf child ),baps (cf rolls ),outwith (cf outside ); or to particular age groups,eg frock (cf dress ),wireless (cf radio ); or to certain occupations eg the specialist terms and acronyms used by groups such as doctors, lawyers, builders, experts and mechanics .
1989	Select reference books and other information materials,eg in classroom collections or the school library or held on a , and use organisational devices,eg chapter titles, subheadings, typeface, symbol keys , to find answers to their own questions.
1989	The reading material should include material which relates to the real world, such as labels, captions, notices, children's newspapers, books of instructions, plans and maps, diagrams, print-out and visual display.
1989	refer to information books, dictionaries, word books or simple data on as a matter of course.
1989	(iii) Discussion should bring out examples of words and expressions which tend to undergo very rapid change in use or meaning —eg terms of approbation (wicked, brill); differences in the use and meanings of words as used by pupils, their parents and grandparents —eg wireless, radio, tranny, receiver ; and new words that have become part of the English vocabulary during the last 50 years or so,eg , astronaut, macho .
1989	For example, a letter to a friend may be informal; a telephone conversation is not face-to-face; interactive written communication is possible via terminals; a speech may be a carefully edited and rehearsed monologue; etc.
1989	Assemble ideas,eg for a story, poem or description , on paper, or on a screen, or in a discussion with others, and show some ability to produce a draft from them and then to redraft and revise as necessary.
1989	Show some ability to recognise when planning, drafting, redrafting and revising are appropriate and to carry out these processes either on paper or on a screen.
1989	Show an increased awareness that a first draft is malleable, eg by changing the form in which the material is cast,eg from a story to a playscript , or by moving text around (either on paper or on a screen), or by altering sentence structure or choice of vocabulary.
1989	Check final drafts of writing for misspellings, using a dictionary or spelling checker when appropriate.
1989	Show some ability to use any available presentational devices that are appropriate to the task,eg handwriting, typewriting, printout, artwork, graphics, desk-top publishing , so that their finished work is presented clearly and attractively.
1989	Check final drafts of writing for misspellings, using a dictionary or spelling checker when appropriate.
1989	Pupils should be able to produce copies of work drafted on a , and encouraged to incorporate the print-out in other work, including displays.
1989	(viii) Pupils should begin to learn explicitly the different stages in the writing process, ie drafting (getting ideas on to paper or screen, regardless of form, organisation or expression); redrafting (shaping and structuring the raw material — either on paper or screen — to take account of purpose, audience and form); rereading and revising (making alterations that will help the reader,eg getting rid of ambiguity, vagueness, incoherence, or irrelevance ); proof-reading (checking for errors,eg omitted or repeated words, mistakes in spelling or punctuation ).
1989	(iv) In proof-reading any work produced on a word processor, pupils may have access to a spelling checker. (v) Pupils should be encouraged to use whatever presentational devices are appropriate for a given piece of work — particularly work that is to be displayed or made public.
1989	(iv) If they use a spelling checker, they should learn about its limitations, for example in not distinguishing homophones,eg fair, fare,or different parts of speech,eg their, there .
1991	The French network, Renatel, will begin linking up existing research systems next year.
1991	The calculation is based on the techniques developed by Kataev in the Soviet Union and implemented on American .
1991	Calculating the probability of the quark following this path from A to B involves integration, which is always difficult for .
1991	AN AUSTRALIAN company has launched an erasable memory chip that retains data when its power source is switched off.
1991	The chip could revolutionise the design of and other electronic devices by doing away with the bulky magnetic disc memories that are currently used to store data permanently.
1991	Current rely on a selection of memory devices.
1991	To store more data and programs when the power is off, most use magnetic discs.
1991	Data stored in RAM chips while the is on must be moved to a disc before the power is switched off.
1991	Such data management operations take up a lot of the 's operating time; in a based on FRAMs they would be reduced to a minimum.
1991	‘You don't have to switch on the , load the program and recall a file from disc — you just switch on and it's there,’ Lyndon-James says.
1991	Ramtron claims that mass-storage FRAMs could make hard and floppy discs unnecessary in smaller , especially laptops, making them more compact.
1991	The arm's sensors are connected to an image-processing .
1991	The screen displays an image of the patient's skull taken before the operation using computerised tomography, a technique which combines X-ray pictures to obtain a three-dimensional image of the interior of the body.
1991	To align the instrument with the image of the skull, specific anatomical reference points on the patient's face, such as the corner of the mouth, are aligned to corresponding points on the three-dimensional image.
1991	‘If you gave me one square inch of surface,’ he said, ‘I could store all the data on all the discs produced by IBM last year.
1991	These up and down movements as the tip scans over the surface provide topographical information which a reassembles into an image of the sample.
1991	The brains of active control systems are that respond within hundredths of a second to the vibrations of an earthquake.
1991	A network of sensors in the basement, sixth floor and roof feed data on the structure's movement, either from wind or stress, to a mainframe .
1991	The calculates when to roll the counterweights and by how much.
1991	Controlled by and battery-powered hydraulics, they push or pull like pistons to damp movement by the walls.
1991	The abbreviation for display is surely wrong; VGA stands for video, not virtual, graphics array.
1991	The references to ‘kilo’ and ‘mega’in the context of technology are misleading simplifications; kilo is 2 to the power of 10, not 1000, and mega is 2 to the power of 20, not a million.
1991	Here, the researcher explores how the foraging patterns develop in a similar way to the patterns that can be produced on a by following simple, repetitive rules.
1991	The company might perhaps be saying that, as happens throughout Britain, nursery children are drawing on waste paper.
1991	SCIENTISTS DEVELOP A MISSILE DRIVEN BY A SIXTH GENERATION .
1988	Everything on .
1988	He unfolds a sheet of printout.
1988	Gary is eating a heaped bowl of cornflakes in the kitchen, while reading Home propped up against the milk bottle and listening via the hall and two open doors to a record by UB40 playing at maximum volume on the music centre in the lounge.
1988	Faster than a , Robyn's mind reviewed these candidates for the target of the strike and rejected them all.
1988	They were walking along a broad corridor between glass-partitioned offices, lit by bleak fluorescent strip lighting, where sallow-faced men in shirt-sleeves stared at terminals or pored over sheets of printout.
1988	Will he be a too, sitting in a dark office?’
1988	‘No, can't think.
1988	Apart from her, the only item in the room that didn't look old and obsolete was the over which the three men were crouched, talking earnestly.
1989	I have pleasure in enclosing a copy of the OALDCE 3/e Electronic tape which has been prepared to your specifications.
1989	Dr James Pustejovsky Department of Science Ford Hall Brandeis University Waltham MA 02254 USA
1989	Your colleague, Mr L K Engels, has written to Simon Murison-Bowie requesting a copy of the OALDCE 3/e Electronic tape to be prepared for you on VM/CMS at 1600 bpi.
1989	Further to my letter of yesterday, I now am able to send you your copy of the OALDCE 3/e Electronic tape, which has been prepared to your specifications.
1989	Dr James Pustejovsky Department of Science Ford Hall Brandeis University Waltham MA 02254 USA
1989	Further to my letter of yesterday, I now am able to send you your copy of the OALDCE 3/e Electronic tape, which has been prepared to your specifications.
1989	Nancy Ide President Department of Science Box 520 Vassar College Poughkeepsie NY 12601 USA
1989	Marc Jaffe Database Acquisition Group Franklin Corporate HQ 122 Burrs Road Mount Holly NJ 08060 USA
1989	Dr Frank Tompa Institute for Research University of Waterloo Waterloo Ontario Canada N2L 3G1
1989	While this series is not my responsibility, it seems to me that our interest could be more easily excited in trying to apply your ideas to video and software than in text describing them.
1989	I see from my files that you asked us to reserve a copy of the OALDCE 3/e tape for your the University of Edinburgh.
1989	I have pleasure in enclosing your OALDCE 3/e Electronic tape which has been prepared to your specifications.
1991	Hospitals now need expensive body-scanners; schools need expensive .
1991	They have to manage without aids such as wheelchairs or special furniture and be able to write and draw — typewriters and are not provided.
1991	are not used in the primary school although some children may have them at home.
1992	A new digital camera, which allows images to be captured then downloaded into a PC has been unveiled by Logitech, a market leader in input devices.
1992	While the camera is dedicated, it is just like a conventional camera in every other aspect — the only real difference being that there is no film involved.
1992	The end results from a photo session, are transferred directly into a by plugging a cable attachment into the serial port of any desktop, laptop or notebook PC.
1992	Once in the , grey scale images can be easily and professionally integrated into documents with Foto Touch, Logitech's new Windows-based image editing software which comes with FotoMan.
1992	Small are now routinely used to perform the tasks for which photographers are employed, whilst the advent of still video is making increasing inroads into the working lives of photojournalists.
1992	An Introduction to Manipulation of Images — 3 March, 12 May
1991	The Phototrack range of software is invaluable to agencies, freelance photographers or anyone who has to organise the storage and management of photographs or transparencies.
1991	A prints out a ‘revolutionary novel’ to be called Notes — but in numbers!
1985	A growing range of equipment is available to the cleaner from the more mundane items like mops and buckets to the highly sophisticated, automatic, controlled process cleaning systems.
1985	They may be very basic, as in the beer line cleaning equipment used in licensed premises, or highly sophisticated fully automatic monitored and controlled.
1990	There are some people who believe that the future of books and magazines for recording information is bleak and suggest that he will make the book obsolete as a way of preserving intelligence for succeeding generations.
1990	•17–18 October Northern Construction Industry Exhibition and Conference 1990.
1990	There are an incredible variety of possibilities which would take three or four lifetimes of an artist — even using a .
1990	The tiles are handmade by trained craftsmen which, combined with the use of controlled handling, drying and firing technology, ensures the production of traditional tiles of a consistently high quality.
1991	Now that so many people work at terminals, the need for natural light in offices has, against all expectations, decreased.
1988	At the sides the cathedral is built of red brick and looks like the headquarters of some great insurance company before replaced clerks.
1988	You can, for instance, buy a , a digital watch and a transistorised tennis game, and the shopkeeper will reach for his abacus (called a soroban in Japan) to calculate the cost.
1991	The symbolic reproduces this imaginary in discrete, regulated entities — small, discontinuous, easily consumable like the bits of information on a screen, like the items in the supermarket, like the small, framed and mirrored segments of the glass-skinned skyscrapers that offer us gleaming reflections of our lives from moment to moment in the high-income, high-tech regions of the American urban environment.
1991	Contemporary graphics and virtual environments (such as the NASA mask-and-glove system) disappoint with their slavish maintenance of monocular perspective.
1991	COMMERCIAL DIVING DIVER DEPLOYMENT THE SAFE WAY PLUS ALL THE LATEST NEWS FROM THE DIVING WORLD CAVE DIVING WORLD RECORD BROKEN IN YORKSHIRE'S BOWELS DIVING HOLIDAYS AUSTRALIA EXPENSIVE BUT WORTH EVERY PENNY LEARNING TO DIVE PUFFIN GOOD FUN FIONA CONACHER JUMPS IN EQUIPMENT FOUR DIVE REVIEWED
1991	Focusing on dive ; their intricacies and usefulness.
1991	When I returned, to my horror, I discovered a dive I had borrowed was missing.
1991	I would appeal to anyone who may have found a Suunto-ML wrist on site to contact me or Caernarfon police station.
1991	Is the dive the result of a fiendish plot by manufacturers to relieve the diver of hard earned cash?
1991	Four dive were reviewed; read on — the results may surprise you.
1991	The DataMax Sport
1991	Now they've taken a plunge into the dive market and the outcome is the DataMax Sport.
1991	The rubber strap is too short to fit around the bulky cuff of a membrane drysuit without either stretching the strap or wearing the over your wrist seal.
1991	Once again, no stops were required (other than the usual safety stop at three metres) and there was a feeling that this would have coped with far more strenuous dives with ease.
1991	One final point to consider is that this has a variable rate ascent warning.
1991	Many of the local scallop divers in the Poole area swear by these , if for no other reason than reliability and price — and this type of diver is notoriously difficult to please.
1991	Worth a thought when you're contemplating which you'll cough up cash for.
1991	Manufactured by Quatek Ltd, the Ace Pro-File is a state of the art dive that is fully interactive with any IBM-compatible personal (PC).
1991	As a dive it logs depth, temperature and cylinder pressure as functions of time, but by using different sensors it can also log up to eight other parameters simultaneously, and control 12 external devices like switches and relays.
1991	Up to four divers can use one since individual dive logs can be stored in separate areas of memory.
1991	Since Pro-File is a data logger it can log parameters other than those required for it to function as a dive (depth, temperature and air data as functions of time).
1991	It is compatible with a personal ; I found it simple to transfer Pro-File's stored data and to display any dive profile.
1991	These criticisms apart, I found Pro-File an impressive whose potential versatility puts it, quite literally, in a class of its own.
1991	It is certainly a state of the art unit, offering an impressive 36 functions which range from three altitude settings, to an internal memory capable of storing up to eight hours of diving profiles, and if that's not enough, you can interface it with a personal and relive your dive profiles in your own home.
1991	The 's micro processor automatically models the absorption and release of nitrogen (it uses a modified Haldanian model based on nine tissue compartments) during all phases of diving, including ascents, surface intervals and repetitive diving.
1991	in general have undoubtedly allowed us more dive time, but a consequence of this is that ascent speeds are now critical.
1991	This is almost as much fun as going diving and is the ability to interface the Solution with a desk top and record, organise and recall all normal logbook information and also any dive profiles from the Solution's internal memory.
1991	Since the introduction of dive onto the market, I have been reluctant to buy one.
1991	However, a few months ago, a friend showed me his latest acquisition , the all-singing-all-dancing which did just about everything except dive for you.
1991	Manufactured by UWATEC of Switzerland, the Aladin Pro is a robust, compact with a mounted dive .
1991	On handing back the I put aside any previous prejudices and purchased my own.
1991	Northern Diver drysuits, five lamps, compasses, knives, depth gauges, watches, decompression tables, and Aladin Pro completed the equipment.
1991	Now wearing five tanks, the final distance to Keld Head took some two hours, including a one hour decompression stop, calculated by the Aladin 100 metres from the entrance!
1991	They also helped out with the Aladin Pro dive .
1991	The PC Wayplanner is economical and flexible since it runs on ordinary IBM-type personal .
1991	Contact: PC Maritime Ltd., The Complex, Somerset Place, Stoke, Plymouth, Devon PL3 4BB.
1990	Living off the proceeds of that bestseller you wrote,Kruger: The That Failed ?’
1976	Any user of a digital knows how precious time and memory storage space are.
1976	At many large centres they are literally costed in money; or each user may be allotted a ration of time, measured in seconds, and a ration of space, measured in ‘words’.
1976	The in which memes live are human brains.
1976	Strategies, in this sense, are preprogrammed rules for action, so it was appropriate for contestants to send in their entries in language.
1976	Axelrod translated all 15 strategies into one common programming language, and set them against one another in one big .
1976	Since there were 15 strategies, there were 15 x 15, or 225 separate games going on in the .
1976	Remember that the ‘players’ in the tournament were not humans but programs, preprogrammed strategies.
1976	Their human authors played the same role as genes programming bodies (think of Chapter 4's chess and the Andromeda ).
1976	This isn't a book about the ingenuity of programmers.
1976	But, as I said before, this is not a book about the ingenuity of programmers.
1976	Axelrod took the 63 strategies and threw them again into the to make ‘generation 1’ of an evolutionary succession.
1976	Before this, the fortunes of the various strategies rose and fell, just as in my simulation of the Cheats, Suckers, and Grudgers.
1976	The strategies in Axelrod's were definitely unconscious.
1976	A nice, forgiving, non-envious strategy could easily be programmed into a by a very nasty man.
1976	A strategy's niceness is recognized by its behaviour, not by its motives (for it has none) nor by the personality of its author (who has faded into the background by the time the program is running in the ).
1976	A program can behave in a strategic manner, without being aware of its strategy or, indeed, of anything at all.
1985	The past eight years has seen a steady and clever manipulation of the so-called thinking minority: the wheezes and schemes of cheeky pop entrepreneurs like Morley and McLaren have been championed in the rock press and elsewhere as a perfect parallel to the upwardly mobile mentality of the calculator and generation, the complete full circle from sixties hippiedom.
1985	As the Factory supremo Tony Wilson pointed out at the time, ‘New Order are leading us into an age of passionate music’.
1991	Are there differences in the experience of handling and owning materials that have been processed by hand and those processed by machines, tools and ?
1991	It could be said that a major function of handmade ceramic ware, individually thrown mugs and bowls, is to aid the transition into the automated age.
1991	The most obvious reason why there is a greater concern with visual images than with the printed word may be thought to be the emergence of the new media — film, television and even the .
1991	Another element in the break-up of libraries is the advent of .
1991	The connection between and library dissolution is surprisingly direct, as two brief examples make clear.
1991	The second thing we did was to sell off some of the rare books in order to provide capital which we could apply to the capital cost of the system.
1992	If the projected examination schedules are retained in the , printouts can be obtained of the examinations scheduled for the next day or week, so rendering unnecessary the use of a manual diary for the control of test schedules.
1991	He also had a at home with simple tailor-made programmes designed to help him find and match words.
1991	Try coping with a party of underprivileged schoolchildren from a housing estate in Manchester with a near-hysterical social worker, a ghetto blaster and some crisp bags to sniff glue, two glum shaven-headed squaddies with flatulence, and a programmer from Maidstone who wants to tell you about why his promotion fell through, and then with one eye twitching, accuses you of having stolen his processed cheese.
1989	TODAY, land-drainage operations are administered from tower blocks, with the aid of in the office and sophisticated machinery on the river bank.
1990	Blair, our oldest son, was entranced by the islands, and after university study and a BSc, he accepted employment with the Ministry of Defence, as a scientist at the RA South Uist rocket range.
1991	We now live our lives by the stock charts of vast plcs.
1991	Have we cleaned up in the room?
1988	An early form of analogue , the astrolabe was primarily designed to solve problems of spherical trigonometry to shorten astronomical calculations.
1991	Their arrangements and business deals were an astonishing feat made, as they were, without the benefit of modern technology — no last minute checks on the or facsimile confirmations, no satellites to speed international communications.
1991	It is now possible to make a booking or get a ticket printed in your office or at your hotel; there are increasingly sophisticated systems to help the traveller get the best value and convenience in their travel arrangements.
1991	It is already possible to book a holiday direct from your sitting room by picking up the phone, and in some countries, people can already reserve the holiday of their dreams through their home .
1991	Inset In the 1990s sophisticated systems at one of Thomas Cooks' Travel Management Centres provide the traveller with the latest travel information.
1991	They also keep details on of their clients' individual preferences for particular hire cars, hotels, airlines, aircraft seats and types of food, so that whenever possible their needs are met.
1991	It is possible to make models that simulate many of these changes in shape, the model being based on the asymmetric contraction of microfilaments.
1991	This is analogous to the complexity of where the signals are essentially noughts and ones but the response depends on previous events.
1991	One way to think of the development of the worm is to draw an analogy with a digital and think of the cells at every cell division making a discrete choice as to what to do next.
1991	Some of the mutations that have been found support this digital image by altering the program in different ways.
1991	Not only did he lay the foundation for the theory of programs, but in 1952 he published a highly original paper on pattern formation.
1979	Cardboard cut-outs of the two continents were made and fitted together, programmes written to devise the most perfect match between the two continents, similarities and the differences in the geology of corresponding areas studied ad nauseam, and even details of the animal life in each continent compared, but without reaching any firm conclusions on whether or not the two continents had ever been united.
1991	Parts of Hawaii still frown on the paraphernalia of the text: on printed words, on pens and paper, on portable .
1991	‘Can I borrow your ?’
1991	In 2001: A Space Odyssey there is a poignant scene where the , Hal, has his brain disconnected in retaliation for un-user-friendly conduct.
1988	Are we complaining that people emerge from school or university unversed in sciences, or unable to operate a ?
1988	If anyone is educated with a goal in mind, to be a doctor, a lawyer or a programmer, then what this person is experiencing, whatever he, or his teachers, may think, is not education, but something else.’
1988	One may, after all, competently drive a car without understanding much about the principles of the internal combustion engine; one may use a typewriter or a word-processor without being able to make or mend one; one may quickly be taught to use a , and make simple programs without being a master of, or even a beginner in, science.
1988	All children need to be educated in technology, if this means the practical use of , word-processors, and other electronic aids.
1988	‘Figures for truanting, lateness and absenteeism will…be fed into the .
1990	The first argument centred on the producer's plan to sample Charman's kit, a process where pads are used to trigger off sounds in a .
1990	Charman returned to Brighton and took several temporary jobs before finding permanent work as a operator with the Inland Revenue.
1987	Buying a second-hand board is rather like the second-hand car or market in that there are plenty of bargains but unless you are careful you can be ripped off.
1981	One of the main factors has been a shift away from energy intensive industries and an increasing concentration on low energy, high technology sectors such as integrated circuits and .
1981	In addition to improvements in fuel consumption by means of improved design, control, weight reduction and increased engine and transmission efficiency, fuel is likely to be conserved by the more efficient use of vehicles.
1981	Modern technology renders generation more efficient; a microprocessor predicts wind behaviour and adjusts the wind generator to maintain maximum performance.
1991	Having said that, there's a programme called Star Test , where the interviewer is a , albeit with a female voice, and interviewees are invited to select from alternative questions flashed up on the screen!
1992	Manpower planning has become quite sophisticated where internal or external specialists are used and time is available for making predictions.
1992	For example, if you have decided that it is essential for your long term plan to learn about then every moment that you are not doing this activity is a wrong use of your time.
1992	systems are playing an important role in reducing paper in the office.
1992	In 1982 one of Britain's leading magazines was told about Bart Kahn's new micro .
1992	Several leading firms happily entered into expensive agreements with Bart Kahn.
1992	However, his company Micro Xenox collapsed with debts estimated at £480,000 and Bart Kahn is reported to have disappeared from his Birmingham home leaving behind some very embarrassed executives.
1992	An angry managing director of the magazine told The Guardian newspaper in November 1982, ‘we are suing Mr Kahn for £18,000 in cash, but have been unable to contact him’.
1992	The fiasco quoted at the start of this chapter underlines the importance of distrusting figures or data when they become over detailed.
1991	Now they are more likely to spend their time  sitting in front of the television, watching videos or staring at a screen.
1991	Legs came before cars, mind and hands before videos and .
1990	Hilton International is focusing its technology on meeting the needs of our cosmopolitan guests.
1990	Despite our growth our financial problems became acute when we bought a , we needed to handle all our administration, and began running up against our overdraft limit.
1992	Other subjects used the first part of the show included the Dart Valley railway, the Red Arrows and graphics.
1992	The alternatives — studying people, tissue culture, modelling etc. — are actually used much more than animal studies.
1992	It would be impossible, for instance, to measure in a test tube the effects on blood pressure of a potential new drug, or to develop new intensive care techniques using a .
1992	Ian is a consultant for a company and Paula is in the accounts department of another company.
1971	Music records and cassettes (and now compact discs), videos, software and other materials are all discussed in the following pages.
1971	Given that stock logistics cannot be an exact science and only provides an indication of use, McClellan's system of analysing loans and shelf stock statistics is simpler (particularly if issue statistics are analysed on a ) and probably no less useful.
1971	The detailed and time-consuming clerical procedures needed to record issues, sizes of stock categories and other stock data can obviously be undertaken more cost-effectively by .
1991	The revolution may have a significant effect upon the way in which you are able to perform your job.
1991	.. It can  hardly be considered that to ask an employee to acquire basic skills as to retrieving information from a …is something in the slightest esoteric or even, nowadays, unusual.
1991	A finance director challenged about the emergence of unexpected  cash flow problems may be able to point out that they are due to invoicing delays caused by the breakdown of a new system, purchased and installed without sufficient thought and against his advice.
1991	The danger that, by trying to protect your future career prospects, you may throw away substantial cash sums in terms of severance payments is a real one, as the case of International Ltd v Kennedy (1981) illustrates.
1991	For example, it may be thought that a programmer will extract some kind of revenge by introducing a logic bomb into the system.
1992	Proteus International , specialists in aided molecular modelling and drug design, announced a loss of £1.27m for the six months ended 30 September 1991, compared with losses of £520000 in the five months to 30 September 1990.
1992	Of these, coatings and electronic materials have been under pressure due to the recession in user industries such as cars, and construction.
1992	The US electronic industries have been in recession for about four years, and Morton's business in this area is driven by , telecommunications and consumer electronics including components for cars, all of which have been hit.
1992	Since the 1950s the growth in power of has helped scientists like Pople give accurate pictures and make telling predictions about how simple molecules and their atoms stay together.
1992	Pople has been instrumental in setting up programs like Polatom, Hondo and Gaussian and giving access to graphical methods for representing simple molecules.
1992	Available from BDH Laboratory Supplies, the Lensman combines aided design with state-of-the-art folded optics to provide a range of operations at home, at work or in the field.
1992	It is a joint venture of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the OCLC (Online Library Centre), a non-profit corporation links 13000 libraries in 46 countries.
1992	For connection the range comes fitted with an RS 232 interface as standard.
1992	ChemTech Analytical has launched the CTA-2000 atomic absorption spectrophotometer which is controlled by a 20MHz , with operations performed by a simple ‘point-and-click’ mouse.
1992	There is very little likelihood of confusion arising whichever spelling is used in English documents, though there will be far-reaching consequences, for example in text-books, abstracts, indices, dictionaries, programs, and teaching, but it is difficult to see any compensating advantages in adopting the US version.
1992	VG LIMS now available on IBM
1992	VG LIMS is the first Laboratory Information Management Systems to be available on the RS60000 series of IMB and represents a major breakthrough in this field.
1989	Unfortunately the consultant who used to write software for CAB use, bowed to budgetary cuts.
1989	It covers social security, housing, money advice, employment and news.
1989	have already been mentioned for the holding of local information.
1989	The place of in improving office efficiency varies widely from bureau to bureau.
1989	On the contrary, the learning process is very time consuming and most volunteers are unlikely to be able to concentrate on acquiring new skills which may be only peripheral to the immediate problem of interviewing clients.
1989	Such pessimism should not, however, discourage the imaginative work that is developing in many bureaux or deny the role of in profiling and statistical work, such as that discussed in Chapter 2.
1989	The Charing Cross bureau records its enquiry statistics on so that information on recurring problems can be extracted without difficulty.
1989	It was also recommended that infiltrate bureau work more extensively, with a officer appointed in each bureau and the sharing of experience and initiatives.
1989	were wanted in social policy work, for client profiles and to make the local information system borough-wide.
1989	In all 1,995 index changes could be counted when these were transmitted by to Scotland.
1989	It is often (but not exclusively) those bureaux who have well-developed expertise.
1989	Tunbridge   Wells, without a as yet, records some estimate of the amount of time spent on each client problem, including interviewing and follow-up work.
1989	With the rejection of a national jubilee fundraising appeal that project is no longer on the agenda, but are, nevertheless, used to  improve aspects of the information service.
1989	are also used in bureaux to collect and analyse enquiry statistics.
1989	The bureaux can register enquiries in considerable detail in the knowledge that the will enable them to extract information under many headings.
1989	Perhaps as this becomes more accepted practice, and the benefits of computerised client data are demonstrated, more bureaux will be encouraged to use a to record client data for social policy work.
1989	If Richmond bureau, which is seriously committed to the use of for the purpose, can extract only partial data from clients, bureaux that are less convinced of its value are likely to obtain a very sparse picture of their clients using this method.
1991	There are already numerous private schools, especially in San Jose, and private foundations funding education already exist — for example, the Omar Dengo foundation which funds resources in schools.
1980	Improvements are recommended in all of these studies such as shutting doors quietly (and oiling them when necessary); handling equipment carefully to reduce noise; muting the alarm systems and telephones; wearing soft-soled shoes; providing soundproof covers for printout machines; reducing conversations between staff and talking quietly; providing earplugs if requested; isolating ‘noisy’ patients from general wards when practicable so that they create the least possible disturbance to other patients — and, as Soutar & Wilson point out, most of these suggestions are simple and inexpensive remedies.
1980	For example, despite the revolution, the language of users still has to be interpreted to the uninitiated; and for clients in the health care system, the vocabulary of staff is often unintelligible or, when only snatches are overheard and understood, is open to misinterpretation and can cause the client and family great distress.
1980	The rapidly growing use of in many areas of everyday living is often referred to as the revolution, similar in scale to the 19th century industrial revolution.
1980	In the Western world, the use of is no longer novel in, for example, industry, commerce and banking, and the need for literacy is recognised to the extent that education for the age now begins at primary school level.
1980	Currently in the nursing field, are being used as a medium for communicating in nursing practice, education, management and research.
1980	Koch & Rankin (1987) and Ball et al(1988) describe examples of application, and the proceedings from an international nursing conference, held in Dublin (Nursing and , 1988), give some idea of the extent of usage in the profession in a number of countries.
1980	This is especially true of personal data but also of enormous importance when research data or top secret intelligence are stored in .
1980	One of the concerns is the use of a password for security which, it is now found, can be abused with relative ease.
1980	With the advent of storage of records, the topic of confidentiality has received considerable coverage and some of the implications of the Data Protection Act, 1984, are discussed by Keighley (1987).
1980	Members of the public in general are concerned about personal information held by .
1980	Where health information is stored in , it is important that the patient understands the safeguards against unauthorised people gaining access.
1989	For another company, the online information services can be accessed through each individual's personal .
1989	By and large, information stored in files or is used mostly for packaging proposals and rarely for learning or initiating and evaluating alternative courses of action.
1989	The companies that have used data bases most successfully for competitor intelligence have kept the data bases small and simple.
1989	On the other side of the argument is the fact that over one-fourth of the respondent firms in the survey did not have an environmental scanning system in evidence, only 5% of the firms were using the most sophisticated environmental scanning system available (i.e. they have an environmental scanning unit which is tied to the planning process, utilizes data banks, involves most countries in which they operate and integrates environmental information on a worldwide basis), and 51% of the respondents still reported little or no computerization being used in the process.
1989	(Asked about inside and outside sources of international environmental information, 27% ‘always used’ outside publications and reports, whereas 0% reported that they ‘never used’such sources; but only 6% reported that they ‘always used’inside databanks, whereas 34% reported that they ‘never used’such sources.)
1989	Paul Strassman's comment is of relevance here: ‘American executives spend too much  money on systems that allow them to do the wrong things faster.:’[Strassmann (1988); see also Strassmann (1985)].
1989	Uncomplicated interface that is truly easy to use.
1988	More powerful elaborations of the simple ideas presented here are also available in algorithms; readers should consult the Minitab manual to see what is done there.
1988	All three deposit their surveys at the ESRC Data Archive at the University of Essex, but the data arrives in a form that can be quite hard to read, and it can take several months for the Archive to be able to supply even small amounts of the raw data in a form usable on most college .
1988	The procedure can, of course, easily be handed over to a .
1988	Don't use awkward subdivisions of the scale; stick to units, twos and fives; can calculate accurately how to plot on scales rising by sevens but you will make mistakes.
1988	Hand or ?
1988	Consult Velleman and Hoaglin (1977) for a useful discussion of the problems of plotting, especially of EDA techniques.
1988	In the  days of calculators and , we no longer use log tables to speed up hand calculations.
1988	We fit lines whenever possible because they are simple, not only for our but also for our own brains.
1991	In the second phase of the work, digitized 1981 Census ward boundaries and population totals were compiled using GIMMS and SASPAC (at Manchester Centre).
1991	At a time when there is a national and international shortage of staff skilled in the handling of geographical data (Rhind and Mounsey 1989), ‘ease of use’ is a vital criterion for the selection of an appropriate GIS.
1991	A user interface, at its most basic, consists simply of a system for communication with the .
1991	Typical operating systems use (and continue to use)‘command line interfaces’ where a user enters a syntactically correct command at a prompt in order to give an instruction.
1991	Many applications use this kind of interface which is common on all machine ranges and sizes, e.g. MS-DOS for IBM-compatible personal .
1991	The GUI is an audio-visual display on the screen which presents a screen metaphor for the actions which the or program can carry out.
1991	Apple's publication Human Interface Guidelines (Apple 1987) set out the 10 chief characteristics of its own GUI as follows:
1991	In response to the buoyant demand for GUIs almost all vendors of systems now offer such an interface product.
1991	Cognitive aspects of spatial perception place constraints on the definition of a spatial language intended to be used as part of a user dialogue with the .
1991	Every other kind of map must be a ‘map-to-read’ and requires some study; it is implicit in experiments carried out by Kraak  (1989) that such maps are not suitable for temporary display on a screen.
1991	Apple (UK) have also assisted in this work by providing laboratory Macintosh which now form the Apple Mapping Centre at Birkbeck College.
1991	Given that‘most GIS are rather dumb systems, requiring intelligent, very literate users’, managing natural and technological hazards means that this knowledge base must be built into the system so that it can be utilized quickly by untrained users after a disaster has taken place or in an emergency.
1991	An argument by many atmospheric physicists, for example, is that shortcomings in the accuracy of weather prediction over periods of more than a few days largely results from the unsophisticated nature of existing models, the lack of suitable data and inadequate power (see Fig. 9.3, derived from Tyler 1989).
1991	Radiation readings are taken every hour at each station and are transmitted to a central which analyses the data.
1991	power is becoming cheaper, digital data more readily available, and GISs are becoming hybrid systems involving other technologies.
1991	In this system, the solution to the transportation problem is shown graphically on the road network, which is displayed on the screen.
1991	In the UK the Institution of Chemical Engineers has produced a simulation program specifically for training personnel at large chemical plants who may one day have to manage major fires and toxic releases (Institution of Chemical Engineers, no date).
1991	A decision support system (DSS) can be considered as an integration of hardware and software specifically designed to complement the human thought process in problem-solving, decision-making and information processing (Benbasat 1977).
1991	These features isolate the user from the technicalities of the and encourage a dialogue based on the user's judgements rather than imposing the hardware engineer's or programmer's discipline on the user.
1991	Fedra and Reitsma (1989) describe a DSS-GIS developed by the Advanced Applications group at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), Austria, which provides an interactive, graphics-oriented framework and post-processor for the risk assessment package SAFETI (Technica 1984).
1991	But in an emergency or disaster situation, the knowledge base must be in the system and there should be no skill barrier to access the system.
1991	Emergency vehicles can be supplied with that track their spatial location.
1985	The feedback of money comes through , telephone lines or the post.
1985	Why is the new Aztec West ‘science park’, with its modern factories for , electronics and similar industries, placed where it is?
1985	Cambridge , besides its university, has much electrical engineering, especially for radios, television sets and .
1985	However, Stirling has grown only slowly, mainly as a market town providing services and products for the farmers, though a new industry is starting there.
1985	Also, now that plastic is replacing sacking, workers are changing to other more varied and light industries such as electrical goods, including Sinclair , and canning fruit and vegetables.
1985	Light engineering , electrical engineering, , clothing and food processing are common industries, including whisky, beer, biscuits and bread in Glasgow.
1985	In the region they make electrical goods, including in Manchester, canned, bottled and processed foods such as biscuits, cat food and sauces, including Heinz baked beans in Wigan; all manner of packaging and printing; shoes, cigarettes and furniture.
1989	First sketches of the TOM were shown through the television networks and negative feedback from viewers in the West of Scotland jammed consumer response in Brussels.
1989	Now an atheist has declared its lack of belief in these gentlemen and, to howls of delight from fundamentalists in both Jewish and Christian religions, has made it possible that Ol' Grampa Moses was the culprit after all.
1989	The was programmed by Jewish scholars to examine the text for differences of word usage in much the same way that Shakespeare's plays or Paul's letters have been examined to determine whether they were written by their putative authors.
1989	A great deal depends on what the was programmed to ask and the criteria for writing the programme might not prove acceptable to all Old Testament scholars.
1989	As far as I know have not yet been brought to bear on the Synoptic Problem which has been tossed around for a century.
1989	So the original word was made flesh, turned into words and the can turn the words into guesses at the Origin of the Word.
1991	It was a Sunday and according to the official explanation, the airline fax and was not in operation.
1991	are used to control the environment and optimise energy consumption in all stores built since 1984.
1991	and office paper, for instance, is in demand and may be recycled into a lower quality, but still very good product.
1991	If you work in an office, check that the paper is being recycled.
1989	Today, the electronic typewriter with its daisy-wheel printer, and the personal with its ink jet dot-matrix printer, have probably put an end to developments in handwriting, although many people are now studying and practising the art of good penmanship, and the term a ‘fine Italian hand’ may yet be restored to its original meaning.
1989	Wiltshire Library and Museum Service (Trowbridge) The importance of this establishment is its use of a data base for recording archaeological sites and historic monuments.
1987	Other assets, are constituted mainly by equipment, e.g. , in which considerable investment has taken place in recent years.
1987	Computer-based services : Most banks now use to process their own transactions.
1991	It is the information with which we feed our , our unconscious programming and our negative reactions to these images — or even our imaginations being used negatively — which all fuel fear.
1991	The left side is a highly sophisticated which, under deep hypnosis, would give you the data registered five years ago recording the number, make and colour of the car which was standing outside your home at the time.
1991	What has brought this about at this point in the race is not the result of his lack of effort, but the which is the left-hand side of the brain, projecting against the inner screen of his mind, all his failures in past events.
1991	If we understand that our left-hand brain, like a , can store images of defeat and inability, then we can see how we need to reprogramme our expectations at a deep level.
1990	New are needed for the subject areas involved.
1990	and information technology will cope with much of the drudgery, but schools will need a finance officer (who may be  one of the existing administrative staff with extra training).
1990	School office staff have received specific training in procedures and the use of software and governors are involved in an extensive programme concerned with their new responsibilities.
1990	All seven schools received a monthly statement in the form of a printout from county hall.
1990	The latter ranged from problems caused by errors in the monthly account statement to problems faced by governing bodies having to decide on which cuts were needed in order to keep within the budget.
1990	All schools could identify additional resources,(for instance, , a music laboratory, enhanced INSET, staff) that had been purchased and which were perceived to be available entirely as a result of devolution.
1990	buying the same goods or services at a lower price (pencils, , repairs, off-peak electricity);
1968	One girl asked another if she had had a lesson on that afternoon and when her friend replied in the affirmative her short comment was ‘Dead boring, isn't it?’
1968	A particularly dangerous trap in analysis has developed with the increasing use of in data analysis.
1968	When survey data are coded and punched for analysis by it is all too easy to ask the to carry out a range of cross-tabulations of one factor by another.
1968	Very often one sees schedules which have never been taken beyond the question-asking stage and one wonders what terrible time and effort must be expended on forcing all sorts of answers into categories later on, especially when electronic means of analysis, such as , are to be used.
1968	Unfortunately in some ways, are capable of analysing and cross-tabulating vast amounts of data very quickly and this apparent ease of analysis seems to lead some people to extend their data collection.
1987	A has several different kinds of memory.
1987	It is called RAM and is the amount of memory people talk about when they say ‘it's a 640K ’.
1987	The ‘forgets’ whatever is stored in RAM when it is switched off; which is why it is so important to save to disk any files you have created beforehand.
1987	do the many cables from the and printers trail all over the place, or are they safely hidden inside trunking?
1987	It also covers data held manually which can be identified using a code held on a .
1987	or programs which are easy to use.
1987	are pictures representing functions.
1987	Desktop can be used as electronic mailboxes into which messages can be posted at a moment's notice for a correspondent to return to.
1987	English is the main language in technology, aviation, shipping and sport.
1987	If you have, it is wise to consider the following points before spending any money on equipment.
1987	In fact, since you buy a to solve problems, and not just to look good on a desk, the software available might be more important to you than the particular machine bought.
1987	The should have a large enough memory (RAM) for the programs you want to run on it, and operate fast enough for your needs and temperament.
1987	Is the and are the programs user-friendly?
1987	A network is a number of and/or other electronic devices connected by cable or by telecommunications via a telephone line.
1987	More exotically, they can be used for voice conferencing or to gain access to mainframe .
1987	This means you could sit at your workstation and ‘talk’ to a on the other side of the world.
1987	For to ‘talk’ to each other when miles apart what they have to ‘say’has to be sent along a telephone line.
1987	Unfortunately don't ‘talk’ in a way which the telephone system can understand.
1987	Therefore translators, or ‘modems’, are connected to both of the to translate the signals at each end of the telephone line.
1987	The world's market is awash with software programs for every kind of application.
1987	On personal some of the most common application programs are:
1987	At last week's meeting of the Buffs Club, the vice-chairman, Mr Braithwaite, introduced the visiting speaker as usual.
1987	The mouse is a hand-held device connected to a which can be used in conjunction with a keyboard.
1987	Sliding the mouse over the desk top beside the rotates a direction-sensitive ball inside it which in turn moves a pointer over the screen.
1987	The cheapness and power of the latest and communications systems provide opportunities for new ways of organising work.
1987	They will be able to work from home using the firm's equipment.
1987	the amount of memory a needs to describe one character of text, data or a program.
1987	Builtin are the brains behind them.
1987	Spoken messages can be stored in electronic mailboxes and retrieved by telephone, and by several people at the same time — because the messages are not recorded as on a tape recorder, but on electronic pulses in the 's memory.
1987	However, which process information much faster than before, and programming techniques which emulate the way language works are developing rapidly.
1987	A typical desktop publishing system consists of a personal connected to a laser printer, using powerful word processing and page layout software.
1990	Siberian forests will be felled and fortunes made.
1990	A struggling beginning has been made in science, a very modest start in technology and .
1990	For most schools, there is nothing new about this thinking: TVEI has already made them familiar with the concepts of cross-curricular dimensions (such as equal opportunities, independent learning) skills and competences (such as literacy, oracy, numeracy, literacy, and the less obvious visual literacy) and themes (such as health education, careers education and guidance, environmental and economic education and — increasingly — citizenship).
1991	Patents cannot be granted for things which are contrary to law or morality, foods or medicines made from mixtures of known ingredients, literary and artistic forms and styles (including programmes), and ‘frivolous’ inventions, among others.
1991	The latest periodical articles on technical matters can be accessed via our large collection of abstracting and indexing journals by our online terminal.
1991	Biographical data on Charles Babbage, pioneer, and most famous scientists can be obtained from our holdings of biographical reference works and individual biographies.
1990	Certainly, there is a need for a substantial impact of additional resources, and the NHS will need to be more successful in attracting key staff such as accountants and staff.
1990	In this way, RMI does not become about systems, or medical audit or about attaching costs to everything.
1990	Or others may be asked to participate in lengthy discussions about what  information needs they have — if this is RMI where is the ?
1992	Today pioneering work is being carried out in every faculty: engineers work on the motor car engine — botanists on plant breeding — physicists on the production of images of the soft tissue of the human body using revolutionary new techniques — social scientists on the political development of Eastern Europe and on systems which mimic human experts — literary scholars produce new insights into the works of major writers.
1989	I now know that these were really Powers-Sallmas cards and that this was the beginning of technique.
1986	Estimates of tensile strength, are based on relationships between tensile, compressive and shear strength parameters and the log-derived Young's Modulus and Bulk Modulus, contained in the MECHPRO program.
1989	Information can be made available more easily through links without the need for a significant layer of intervening administrative bureaucrats or middle managers.
1989	In the process an information model is built up on a database which is then used as a framework to explore the situation and identify problems at a number of levels (Fig 11.1).
1989	The early pictures were drawn on a flip chart with the help of staff from the home, and later reconstructed using graphics.
1989	In the case of the MINSE project, where the intention was to record activities on a database, this also served to validate the codes given to each item before entering them into the .
1989	As reflected in the original rich picture, there were concerns about the routine handover of information  about the day-to-day condition of residents, and it was obvious that the process of keeping records for a large number of residents was an arduous manual task, indicating that some gains in efficiency might be possible by the introduction of support.
1989	However, the initial investigation had revealed that there was some potential for the use of a to support the primary functions (ie identifying and meeting resident needs), which in addition could be used to support other tasks, such as processing financial transactions and records.
1989	These views gave additional weight to the argument that the MINSE analysis should address the issue of defining how a could support the organisational objectives.
1989	The initial examination of the requirement was based on the categories derived in the earlier analysis, which produced some tentative conclusions about the type of records that could be held on a , and the potential advantages that could be gained.
1989	Eventually it was realised that a number of other conclusions could be drawn from the analysis which were relevant to the development or selection of a system, such as:
1989	The activities required for successful operation of the EPH were known, and, based on the acquired knowledge of the EPH environment, those activities that were suitable for support could, in consultation with the client, be identified with reasonable accuracy.
1989	The information needed, or produced, by each activity was also known, and could form the basis of the records to be held on any system.
1989	In other words, by careful examination of the database it was possible to assess and list the processes that could be supported by a system, and identify broadly the associated information.
1989	As a result of this and an examination to collect volumetric data about the main EPH records and procedures, a draft user requirement was prepared, showing the potential for support and the likely costs of the options for system development.
1989	The investigation had revealed that, due to low activity  rates, an EPH would gain only limited benefits from support of isolated functions, and it was necessary to exploit the relationships that existed between the functions so that an integrated package could be developed.
1989	As a result, a was installed in the EPH where the research was carried out shortly after the project was completed, which, being suitable for general administrative tasks such as wordprocessing, had the additional benefit of providing some immediate reward for the efforts of the staff who assisted with the analysis.
1989	The analysts encountered many problems in the process of bridging this gap, but each problem was addressed in turn and an appropriate solution found, generally by making imaginative use of software to record and manipulate the mass of data that was produced as the analysis progressed.
1989	The most tangible outcome of the MINSE research project was the user requirement for support of EPHs, which, arguably, could have been produced using a more conventional approach.
1989	However, this resulted from an improved understanding of how certain information handling functions supported the organisation's objectives, rather than from a deliberate intention to introduce a to the situation.
1989	Furthermore, the analysts were aware of major developments that were taking place that would eventually have significant effects on the duties and responsibilities of certain functional groups at the Colleges.
1989	To this end, the analysts also examined the procedures and responsibilities for financial matters at one specific College, taking account of the earlier systems findings and the forthcoming introduction of support.
1989	Given the varying levels of expertise in Colleges at that time, and the current status of the proposed new systems, it was difficult to make specific proposals about how the associated responsibilities should be handled at College level.
1989	The term management information systems itself covers a wide variety of, mainly, developments, ranging from the installation of stand-alone microcomputers and wordprocessors, to the sophistication of the proposed system.
1989	The importance of providing a focal point for these developments was also emphasised, and it was felt that this could be part of the role of the College Administration Officer so that non-partisan strategies for developments could be evolved.
1989	In terms of priorities, the client was advised to consider first the changes required to reflect the responsibilities that would be assumed from April 1st 1990, accepting that, in the longer term, further changes would be needed as a result of management information and system developments, and to improve cost control and income-generating activities.
1989	It was also agreed that, once the changes implied by these actions were effective in each College, further measures would be taken to reflect the developments and to address the issue of adjusting finance in relation to actual costs (ie by enhancing cost-control and income-generating activities) so that the Colleges could move towards the state of financial equilibrium implied by the system models.
1989	Procedures of both sorts can be found in any type or size of organisation, for filling in forms, processing goods, inputting data to a system etc, and those directed at the continual development and implementation of policy, or the preservation of the mode of business operation.
1989	After leaving the section, the completed forms are passed to the department personnel section for verification of the claimants eligibility, and then processed by the data preparation section of the Finance department onto the main for subsequent issue of cheques.
1989	As a consequence, the claims missed the normal weekly batch-processing of data into the organisation's mainframe , and the subsequent delay in receiving the expenses cheques was greater than the actual time taken to reprocess the forms within the section.
1989	The package is used to explore a given situation, identify a problem area, then produce a requirements specification for a system to effect some improvement.
1989	To develop this theme, two distinct phases of a study into the information support needs of an organisation are examined here, the first making extensive use of the SSM to obtain an overview of these needs and produce a high-level user requirement for support, and the second applying standard O&M techniques to progress the study to an acceptable conclusion.
1989	The chosen organisation was a local authority that had participated in earlier developments, but this time the study examined the problems that had arisen in the Highways and the planning departments following the establishment of a common unit providing both with financial, administrative, personnel and support.
1989	The introduction of support could have had significantly different effects on the service providers and on the users , and the Needs Analysis was carried out using a different questionnaire for each generic group.
1989	The problems were not confined to standard paper-based files; the work of the departments required a variety of file forms, such as large plans, maps and drawings, and storage media.
1989	A hybrid system consisting of a centralised index, and a variety of microforms used primarily to provide back-up copies of all information Items.
1989	The filing and retrieval of graphic-based items would require interfacing to aided design workstations or digitisers, ie for entry, creation or updating of documents.
1989	In the early stages of the internal follow-up review, it was agreed that the proposed hybrid system (ie making use of microfilm supported by a index), rather than reduce duplication of documents, would tend to encourage it.
1989	However, at this point, the proposal that a index could be developed to improve the management of filing systems generally was considered worthwhile, and this became the focus of the early part of the study.
1989	This detailed investigation revealed that, although in broad terms the earlier proposals were supported, the total number of files held by the departments (ie approximately 60,000), and the variety of ways in which outposted files were managed and used, would make the cost of providing a sophisticated system throughout excessively high, compared to the benefits that could accrue.
1989	In addition to the obvious costs of hardware/software, greater disciplines would have to be imposed on all users of the filing systems in order to keep the record up to date; for example , all movements of files in and out from their home base would have to be logged by the user, including branch officers who have direct access to outposted files.
1989	The findings from the investigation, as given above, caused both the client and the analysts to review the situation and concentrate first on the general organisation of the filing system as a whole, to determine if it were possible to achieve some degree of commonality as a prerequisite to the development of a support system.
1989	Following the production of a suitable user specification, introduce limited support of the central filing system to assist with records management and indexing.
1989	Review the requirement for support of outposted files as an added value factor once a department network had been installed (Note: this was due to take place after the departments had moved to the new accommodation).
1989	Management of the filing system would be aided by the introduction of the disciplined procedures required to operate the system, and by an improved awareness of the overall state of the system at any time.
1989	There was also a reasonable and sound expectation that, on the basis of the initial support installation, many of the other problems identified by the FAOR team would eventually be addressed and solved.
1989	The exercise of decomposing the system models will aid this process, progressively bringing the systems ideas closer to what can be observed in practice; imaginative use of unsophisticated software can also help, particularly where the level of detail makes manual analysis impracticable; simple matrices similar to those employed to good effect in many of the studies described in this book can also be of benefit; not forgetting, of course, the significant value of discussing ideas with experienced staff from the organisation being studied.
1989	This analysis can be carried out manually by examining related complaints, grumbles etc and assessing the root cause of the expressed problems, or by utilising the facilities of a database to record, assess and regroup a series of minor points.
1989	The clarity and definition of rich pictures can be aided by using graphics; however, attempting to construct them on a from the outset can impose artificial constraints, and the original pictures should always be drawn freehand.
1989	Expansion of the model (ie extended analysis ) can be aided by using a database to record and retrieve each activity, associated resources, information, and measures of performance.
1989	In addition, experience has shown that it is equally important to make a provisional assessment of factors such as development and staffing costs, and the technical feasibility of pursuing any proposed initiatives.
1989	In summary, systems concepts and principles can, with a little imagination and effort, be utilised to good effect in virtually any situation, including those where systems development is taking place, either in the limited sense described above, or by making use of the full SSM package to put such developments into an organisational and social context.
1991	The students devised and built a model based upon an electronic solution under control.
1989	in the shop
1989	tags carry a coded message which the at the cash desk can read.
1989	There are several types of tags:
1989	The cannot interpret the information if the tag is dirty or marked.
1989	If the firm's tills are connected to a , the record of stock levels is automatically adjusted ever, v time a sale is recorded at the till.
1989	Mail order firms also use .
1989	When an agent telephones the company with an order, the operator is able to tell the agent very quickly whether the goods required are in stock.
1989	If the items are available, the then takes the order, processes it through the warehouse, transfers the information to the accounts department and prepares all the despatch documents.
1989	If the firm's…are connected to a the of stock levels is adjusted automatically.
1990	(Advertisement for a in Practical Computing , May 1989)
1990	The SPAR system was developed at Cambridge University Laboratory while I was supported by the British Library and King's College, Cambridge.
1991	The Conservation Laboratory of the British Library National Sound Archive is undertaking research on these lines at the moment, and the strongest candidate is a form of WORM disk (Write Once, Read Many times).
1991	Nowadays record companies use impeccable accounting techniques, assisted by , to calculate the royalties for composers.
1989	It's rather like a when the disc goes wrong — you know the info is there but you can't tap into it.
1991	The Act regulates the use of automatically processed information about living, identifiable individuals (personal data) which is held on and other ‘equipment operating automatically in response to instructions given for that purpose’.
1991	In some instances it is essential for students to have access to automatically processed information in connection with their academic work, particularly involving the use of the terminals.
1991	Users are required to adhere to all legal requirements, contractual licences and agreements approved by the Senate, the Educational Services Policy and Planning Committee, the Policy and Planning Committee or the Director of Services in relation to the protection of data, software and network access or usage.
1991	access any systems management file or command, or use restricted commands except in conjunction with Services staff;
1991	deliberately consume excessive resources, or the time of staff;
1991	load unapproved software packages on Services equipment;
1991	use Services facilities for any work outside the guidelines without the approval of the Director;
1991	Student access of personal data is strictly controlled under guidelines issued by Services to ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act.
1991	Approved software is software which meets the requirements of Services and which is:
1991	released by Services;
1991	All software should be formally accepted by Services and microcomputer software should be tested to the satisfaction of Services staff on a standalone microcomputer in the user's own department.
1991	Consultation with Services, and acceptance of any conditions arising, would be required where any other approach is to be used.
1991	Services
1991	Services provide a comprehensive computing and data communications service to all sections of the University community.
1991	There are terminal and microcomputer facilities at all four campuses, with over 3000 students registered at any given time for use of the central DEC VAX range of .
1991	Additionally, almost all students make use at some time or other of one of the thirty or so departmental micro laboratories, with about 900 micro to choose from, ranging from standard BBCs to powerful SUN and Apollo workstations, and MS-DOS PCs of varying types to Apple Macintoshes.
1991	The University has, on account of its dispersed geographical locations, one of the finest internal University networks in the UK, including Cambridge Rings, Ethernets and X25 local area networks, with high-speed inter-campus X25 links connecting the main computing facilities.
1991	The software library supported by Services not only promotes general facilities that are found in modern computing departments (such as languages and compilers, mathematical and scientific routines, databases, spreadsheets and word-processors), but also includes a large inventory of teaching software covering the spectrum of academic activity at the University.
1991	International marketing; International business; Aspects of marketing and marketing management; Strategy and small business; modelling and strategic management; Competitive strategy; Acquisition strategy; Strategic issues of the Channel Tunnel; Business policy; Entrepreneurship; Visual interactive simulation.
1991	Human-Computer Interaction — Vision: Industrial vision systems; performance assessment and adaptation; Application toolkits; Image processing.
1991	HCI — Design and Evaluation:Issues which determine the usability of systems; Novel types of human-computer interface using vision, speech, and hearing; Alternative interface mechanisms eg. touchscreen; The human-computer interactions involved in development and industrial environments; Assessing the usability of systems; The design and evaluation of application-specific interfaces.
1991	Machine Translation:The use of in the process of translation of natural languages; Dictionary design and management; Translation software; Computational linguistics.
1991	Simulation:Mathematical modelling; The implementation of simulation models of real-world systems on digital using conventional and special-purpose languages; The application of simulation in the design cycle.
1991	Science
1991	Information Systems Development Methodologies:Practical and innovative solutions to the problems associated with modern Information System methodologies and Aided System Engineering (CASE) tools; Framework for the evaluation, comparison and selection of Information System development methodologies/CASE tools; Design and development of an object-oriented systems development methodology; Intelligent analyst workbench migration mechanisms.
1991	Human-Computer Interaction:Issues and techniques which determine the usability of systems, interactive programming techniques, and novel types of human-computer interface such as hearing, vision, speech, and AI systems; Industrial vision systems; Aiding the work of a programmer producing vision systems for specific applications; Building into such systems the ability to monitor their own performance and adapt appropriately; Studying the human-computer interactions involved both in the developmental and industrial environments.
1991	Microelectronics Applications:Instrumentation and measurement systems applied to medical and environmental studies, low-energy houses, district heating, particular needs of the garment and textiles industry, transport studies; Control and measurement of heating systems; Mathematical modelling of building thermal performance; interfacing; Applications of video image acquisition and analysis.
1991	Building Management:Computer-aided design in building; Applications of in building; Quality assurance in building; Aspects of unsatisfactory housing.
1991	Robotic supervisory control; Thin film fabrication; Semiconductor heterojunctions and superlattices; Flat panel display addressing and pixel modelling; Glow discharge processes; Chemistry of II–VI phosphors; Sensors, biomedical telemetry; Real-time digital signal processing; Sonar signal processing; Bandwidth compression of speech and video; High-speed implementation of logic/modelling/transmission line effects; Graphics design for simulation of printed circuit board design and facsimile reception; Heart rate variability; Blood pressure monitoring; Cardio-vascular modelling; Speech recognition and synthesis; Artificial hearing devices; Data communications; Electric vehicle drives; Power electronics; ASIC/PAL design; Transputer applications; Radio-frequency devices and systems; Ventricular modelling; Adaptive filters; Fetal and neonatal monitoring; Garment and textile automation and control; Image processing; Control systems; Adoptive systems; Flight control systems; Expert systems applications; Electromagnetic wave propagation studies.
1991	Human Geography:Residential segregation and violence; Socio-economic change and regional development in Eastern Europe and the USSR; Historical demography of the British Isles; European industrialisation, developmental pressures in Southern Europe (especially Spain and Portugal); Third World development studies; Changing structures in agriculture; applications in geography; Historical geography of Ireland; Regional development and employment change.
1991	Computer-aided design/computer-aided management (CAD/CAM); Applications of finite element techniques; Design and development of heat transfer systems as applied to tools for diecasting and injection moulding; Service performance of explosive welds; processability of polymer and polymer/additive blends; Alloying of polymers, including interpenetrating networks; Modified burning characteristics of polymers; Advanced engineering composites; Effect of moisture and low-energy impact on carbon-fibre reinforced first generation and toughened epoxy resins; Processing, structure and property interaction of fibre reinforced thermoplastics; Composite type rubbers; Robot kinematics and dynamics; Frictionless hydraulic actuators; Metal forming; Machine tool performance; analysis of component roundness; Dynamic stability in cutting; Finite element modelling of EDM parameters; Automatic control of ram movement and strip feeds of hydraulic press; Blood flow analysis and bone necrosis; Ultrasonic evaluation of adhesive-bonded metal structures.
1991	Land use and land value; Urban development studies; Urban regeneration; Property valuation; Planning; Housing; Application of quantitative techniques in valuation; Property development within the EC; Project management; Application of in surveying; Energy conservation; Life cycle costing; Contract documentation; Construction economics.
1991	Services
1991	Services provide a comprehensive computing and data communications service to all sections of the University community.
1991	There are terminal and microcomputer facilities at all four campuses, with over 3000 students registered at any given time for use of the central DEC VAX range of .
1991	Additionally, almost all students make use at some time or other of one of the thirty or so departmental micro laboratories, with about 900 micro to choose from, ranging from standard BBCs to powerful SUN and Apollo workstations, and from MS-DOS PCs of varying types to Apple Macintoshes.
1991	The University has, on account of its dispersed geographical locations, one of the finest internal University networks in the UK, including Cambridge Rings, Ethernets and X25 local area networks, with high-speed inter-campus X25 links connecting the main computing facilities.
1991	The software library supported by Services not only promotes general facilities that are found in modern computing departments (such as languages and compilers, mathematical and scientific routines, databases, spreadsheets and word-processors), but also includes a large inventory of teaching software covering the spectrum of academic activity at the University.
1991	Available units in Fine Art encompass traditional disciplines including Painting, Sculpture and Printmaking as well as Time-based Studies, Performance Art and Studies.
1991	It therefore includes, for those students choosing Product Design, studies in three-dimensional model-making, drawing office practice, three-dimensional modelling on , plus aspects of engineering and materials technology.
1991	The curriculum includes production techniques for the surface decoration of textiles and paper products; design methods and development of design; pattern movement and colour modulation — essentially relating these to industrial practice.
1991	Undergraduate courses in particular match the needs of the professional syllabuses, and the widespread use of at this level ensures that graduates have a strong foundation in the use of the modern tools of accountancy.
1991	As well as including a wide range of subjects relevant to the study of accountancy, the course includes a practical workshop in each year of the degree.
1991	These workshops have been included to ensure that graduates will have ‘hands on’ experience of the accounting and business software that is of increasing importance to the accountancy profession.
1991	Management Information Systems and in the Clothing Industry
1991	Logistics and Technology
1991	In addition to the study of English and Mathematics, the course includes work in Religious Education, Art, Drama, Music, Physical Education, Science, History and Geography and other aspects of the primary curriculum (for example, the use of ).
1991	Most courses include training in the use of and other aspects of information technology and the majority include project work in the final year.
1991	There is also a unit which introduces students to the use of methods in the study of history.
1991	In addition the course provides students with some practical experience of through the use of computer-aided instruction in logic in Year II.
1991	The Information Technology elements of the course introduce the theory and practice of problem-solving with .
1991	In Year II, students are given a solid grounding in programming (Programming Languages) and architecture (Programming Systems).
1991	Detailed consideration is also given to the role of the in the study of Irish history, including regular ‘hands on’ experience in the laboratory.
1991	These skills include the use of the to analyse social data, the management of small organizations, and social skills training.
1991	There is also a unit which introduces students to the use of methods in the study of history.
1991	An additional attraction of studying informatics is that graduates may now also achieve chartered engineer status through the British Society, a body which has been nominated to register individuals with the Engineering Council.
1991	Among current activities is research into software engineering and parallel computing, transputers, mathematical modelling, database architectures, human interaction, information systems and artificial intelligence.
1991	The University's facilities are first rate.
1991	Students have access to facilities which include the University's main multi-access system based on VAX 8700 , as well as the Faculty's own specialized facilities which include an IBM 9370 system for Expert Systems work.
1991	Extensive laboratory facilities are available, including terminal laboratories with up-to-date equipment as well as laboratories specializing in areas such as software development and graphics.
1991	Locally and nationally, the expanding software and applications industrial sector offers challenging and rewarding employment prospects.
1991	As the takes more responsibility for routine and mundane processes and tasks, the professional has yet more opportunity for creative effort.
1991	The keywords of the new information technology include software engineering, intelligent knowledge-based and expert systems, human interaction, computer-aided design and systems design methodologies.
1991	As the technology of hardware becomes more established the emphasis will fall increasingly on the power and potential of software to create new techniques and opportunities.
1991	At the end of their first or second year, a limited number of students may transfer to this degree course from the BTEC HND in Studies (Code JN 1210)(see page 165), on the basis of academic performance and after completion of some additional work during the long vacation.
1991	Approval is being sought from the British Society and the Institution of Electrical Engineers for exemptions from their professional examinations.
1991	Organization and Data Communications
1991	The third year is spent on placement in a installation.
1991	At the end of their first or second year, a limited number of students may transfer to this degree course from the BTEC HND in Studies (code JN 1210)(see page 166), on the basis of academic performance.
1991	Successful completion of the BSc Hons Computing and Information Systems leads to exemption from Parts 1 and 2 of the British Society professional examinations.
1991	Success in a computing career has particular prerequisites: knowledge of computing principles (these change only slowly), understanding of how the power of can be exploited (this is continually changing), and skill in using hardware and software to achieve organizational goals.
1991	Course content has been selected to give graduates the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to equip them for careers in software development, application systems development, and in using systems to further organizational goals.
1991	Acquiring familiarity with the work of professionals is an important goal of the courses.
1991	The placement in Year III is an opportunity to practise new skills and learn how people in employment use and develop systems.
1991	Programming is the context used to develop an understanding of many aspects of the application of .
1991	The software engineering theme continues with a study of a modular approach to designing solutions.
1991	The second theme, the Application of Computing, is supported by units in Information System Design, Human Interaction and Artificial Intelligence.
1991	There is provision for transfer between the ordinary honours degree courses, and from the HND Studies courses (see page 166) on the basis of academic performance.
1991	Successful completion of the BSc Ord Applied Computing leads to exemption from Part 1 of the British Society professional examinations.
1991	The first two years are intended to provide a solid foundation in the basic elements of computing such as software development, systems, an introduction to the organizational context for computing and concepts of basic programming.
1991	There is provision for transfer between the ordinary and honours degree courses and from the BTEC HND Studies (Code CE1112)(see page 167) course at Coleraine to the degree course, on the basis of academic performance.
1991	Successful completion of the BSc Ord Computing leads to exemption from Part 1 of the British Society professional examinations.
1991	The role of the in solving such problems is stressed and solution techniques are taught in conjunction with the relevant foundations in applicable pure mathematics.
1991	BTEC HND Studies JN 1210 (with placement)
1991	In addition, students acquire an understanding of the role of the in a commercial environment, are encouraged to develop a methodical approach to the evaluation of systems, and learn the basic mathematical and statistical techniques in the context of business computing.
1991	a BTEC National Diploma in Studies;or
1991	Successful completion of this course leads to exemption from Part 1 of the British Society professional examinations.
1991	BTEC HND Studies CE 1112
1991	In Year I of the course, students acquire skills in areas such as hardware and software, and IT systems.
1991	Year II sees the technology applied to a range of topics such as information management and human interface, with students drawing together the skills acquired on the course by undertaking an individual project in an area of particular interest.
1991	a BTEC National Diploma in Studies;or
1991	Approval is being sought from the British Society for exemption from Part I of the professional examinations.
1991	This is a broad, vocationally-biased course which is designed to develop problem-solving skills, to give students a knowledge of relevant mathematical and statistical models, and to make them proficient users of appropriate software.
1991	The teaching methods of the course include not only lectures and tutorial classes but also: the extensive use of case studies which have been developed in partnership with local industry; the use of expert systems in statistical analysis; and project work emanating from the research activity of the Department of Mathematics, including statistical research on financial trends.
1991	Students' previous mathematical knowledge is extended and they are introduced to new areas of mathematical studies such as probability and statistics, the application of statistical methods to the collection and analysis of data, programming and the use of custom-built software packages.
1991	Holders of the Diploma may expect to obtain exemption from various parts of the examinations of the professional bodies, the Institute of Statisticians and the British Society.
1978	Computerised library courses certainly teach the student how to interact with the terminal and use dialogue.
1978	At MIT in Project Intrex use was made of the to teach the user how to carry out an information search.
1978	Huston-Miyamoto developed a CAI package which has been operational since 1979 for users of the Library System (LCS) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
1978	These databases are now widely accessible for information searching from local terminals which are linked to the central store via a telecommunication network.
1978	In the Annual review of information science and technology , McCarn (1978) and Wanger (1979) have reviewed training and education for online information retrieval and Caruso (1981) has written about aids to learning online retrieval.
1978	In order to demonstrate online information retrieval, it is necessary to be able to show moving images generated in the search, thereby creating a feeling of reality.
1978	assisted instruction (CAI)
1978	It would appear likely that some form of Assisted Learning would have considerable educational potential for instruction and training in online information searching.
1978	Assisted Instruction (CAI) can be used to present the subject matter in logical online searches as an articulated hierarchy of tasks.
1978	A review of ‘aids to learning online retrieval’ has been written by Caruso in 1981.
1978	can be used in a number of ways to assist users:
1978	as a training or instruction device (CAI) in which the acts as a link between the instruction programme and the student.
1978	The branched design utilizes the interactive capacity of the more fully than the simpler linear mode;,
1978	A is used to simplify the search procedure and process for the user, for example by translating commands in one language into commands appropriate for other systems;
1978	*MEDLEARN* is maintained on the NLM in Washington and it can be accessed via TYMNET or TELENET.
1978	Amongst other things, the was used to display a conventional set of instructions that could equally well have been provided in a printed form.
1978	Mogdham found, in 1974, that a thirty minute tutorial program, available on a campus , was ‘a far more effective medium than printed instructions’ in teaching transient users searching on the New York Times Information Bank, at the University of Pittsburgh.
1978	Caruso, also working at the University of Pittsburgh has developed the TRAINER program of assisted instruction.
1978	These programs have been written in BASIC by postgraduate students at the Department of Information Studies, and they are mounted on a Prime 400 minicomputer.
1978	The programs have been successfully transferred to a wide range of including microcomputers.
1978	This allows for the careful construction and editing of search statements and profiles, before block transmission at optimum speed to the host .
1978	and information
1978	In a society which is becoming increasingly influenced by and other information technology it is recognized that schoolchildren need the facility of interacting with the new technology as soon as possible.
1978	Not only will a significant proportion of information be accessible commercially via the but the next generation will also be inputing and retrieving a substantial proportion of its own information via the .
1978	These various strands of information work with the are combined in some of the newest developments in user education in schools.
1978	However, there is a tendency for the content of the packages to be simply a transfer of printed teaching matter to the medium, without capitalizing on the extra advantages of the medium, for example, making full use of its interactive teaching possibilities.
1978	The UK clearinghouse achieves this by sending printouts of each library's deposits to the library so that currency and accuracy of input can be checked, and new material added.
1987	Voluntary organisations need counsellors, accountants, book-keepers, buffs.
1992	bring the ship's equipment to life and videos help to complete the sensation of being on board.
1992	WE ARE BORN OF STARS is the 3-D IMAX film which takes you into a new dimension using state-of-the-art graphics.
1992	Housed in the beautifully restored medieval church of St. Saviour, the ARC offers people of all ages the opportunity to gain ‘hands on’ experience of archaeology, handle real finds, try out ancient crafts and use in the quest for information.
1991	Or should they be grateful that Britain's science machine is too poor and backward to buy a to take its decisions for it?
1991	This material, ready mixed, possibly on the instructions of a , and hardened with ingenious new chemicals, daily changes millions of lives.
1991	He wants to extend the government's support for research into areas beyond disciplines related to .
1991	The government already pays for a unit at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, in Farnborough, that uses powerful to analyse signals from the satellites.
1991	They need a different set of techniques to make sense of the more detailed data that will be produced.
1991	As it passes over a toll point in the road (essentially a wire loop buried in the surface) a radio beam from the loop will interrogate the number plate and feed back the vehicle number to a central .
1991	Mercury wants to install a network of fibre-optic cables, to carry telephone calls and data, inside the ducts that run along railway tracks.
1991	Eventually, Mercury will carry telephone calls, data, slow-scan television pictures, and provide services such as video-conferencing and electronic mail.
1991	He says this is ‘a system seriously intended to become…a universal instantaneous publishing system and library’.
1991	INDUSTRIAL wrangling over a new type of small floppy disc for storing data is holding up the development of useful portable .
1991	One thing the microfloppies have in common is the fact that they are all under 10 cm in diameter, making them better suited for briefcase-size than the existing 5¼-inch (12–5 cm) and 8-inch (20 cm) diameter floppy discs.
1991	Sinclair Research has promised to produce a small magnetic storage unit for its Spectrum .
1991	The company's 100 mm disc (just under 4 inches) is destined for use with new personal .
1991	At the moment manufacturers and disc drive makers who do not want to invest in their own design are uncertain about whose bandwagon to jump on.
1991	But the rest have to make up their minds soon, because portable owners are short of good software for their .
1991	Although the discs will fit any drive, this is no guarantee that they can be read by the .
1991	Division Broadcast of Leicester has spent 10 years building up goodwill for its Digivision range of colour and monochrome display monitors for .
1991	users, both professional and amateur, dread power cuts because even a short interruption can lose all the data in the machine's memory.
1991	With this it can supply the with power of accurate mains frequency and voltage for several minutes as the wheel slows down.
1991	The student has a stock of colour-coded labels which carry key words (such as‘GOTO’) or numbers or letters of the alphabet.
1991	To write a program, the student selects appropriate labels and puts them in a tray.
1991	The theory simply begs to be tested by simulation.
1991	Land suggested that Alvey's group did not consult enough of the people who would use advanced ; that it had paid too little attention to international collaboration; and that the committee focused on too narrow an area of activity.
1991	These are containing sets of rules that approximate to those people use during the thinking process.
1991	The other areas earmarked by Alvey's group are: software engineering; ways of making it easier for people to communicate with ; and methods of cramming more electronic components onto a chip.
1991	It is difficult to disagree with him for the conjunction of and communications is perhaps the most important aspect of information technology.
1991	Perhaps too, Land is right in suggesting that users should have been brought more into the argument.
1991	Japan's plan to build ‘fifth-generation’ , which started the British debate, was formulated only after discussions with people representing many sectors of society who have nothing directly to do with .
1991	Whereas very few people want or need to travel across the Atlantic in Concorde, hundreds of millions of people use or related equipment.
1991	It is sometimes easy to deride work in artificial intelligence — and some researchers are their own worst enemies when it comes to persuading people to back their efforts — but there is every sign that advances in this discipline will play a large part in the kind of machines that tomorrow's users will buy.
1991	The House Bill sets aside $250 million in 1984 to retain teachers and improve schools' equipment and services — particularly access to .
1991	THE FRENCH have called in the troops to speed up the spread of learning.
1991	Instead of square-bashing around their Berlin barracks , 500 graduates will do their military service teaching the young jobless how to use .
1991	If the targeted 10 000 is achieved, France will have 400 000 more youngsters a year with skills.
1991	One language for government
1991	THE British Government is taking the first tentative steps to standardise the and equipment that are bought by civil servants.
1991	The latest move is the introduction of a scheme to test whether can handle a standard version of Cobol, a language used by business.
1991	The Central and Telecommunications Authority (CCTA), which advises government departments on information technology , says there are no plans to set compulsory standards.
1991	A survey conducted in 1977 by the US federal government concluded that it costs as much to change from one to another as to buy the machine itself.
1991	DOUBTS about the unique package planned by the Central Electricity Generating Board to prevent an accident in the reactor of its PWR station have been voiced by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate.
1991	In another case, the committee has refused permission for health authorities to link their files with personal tax records.
1991	But the workers hope to marry them together with the aid of techniques to come up with sets of data ‘signatures’ that will indicate deposits far beneath the Earth.
1991	The Buggy is connected to a BBC by an umbilical cable.
1991	Apart from the battery of robots and electric motors under control, firms are selling gadgets for teaching the principles of microprocessors.
1991	Scientific Systems makes what is called the Exploded View , a £150 machine which displays its workings on a board of coloured lights.
1991	The can be slowed down so that each step it takes can be followed on the display of lights.
1991	In return for an extra payment, a subscriber will call up feature films, audio entertainment or software.
1991	Exhaustive simulations done in the US show that even at the present prices for fuel, conventional sailing ships are only marginally competitive when all is counted.
1991	SPECIFICALLY designed to improve the usability of a wide range of personal by raising the back to a calculated level.
1991	It consists of two plastic wedges, with sticky surfaces to attach to the and rubber Feet.
1991	Two of them can be yours, giving ‘a professional look to the personal set-up’, for £3.95, Enterprising I reckon.
1991	Somehow they must disentangle the satellites (which are for sale) from the land-based and data banks, which make sense of the satellites information but which are not apparently for sale.
1991	But the bureaucratic complexities start with the decision about what to do with the run by the National Weather Service, which, like NESDIS, is part of the government's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
1991	The process the satellite data to turn them into useful information.
1991	at the centres hold information of vital importance to any private forecaster.
1991	A controls Challenger's gun, so it can shoot accurately at moving tanks, even when the vehicle is itself driving across country.
1991	Information about the target's position passes automatically to the , which calculates where the gun should point so that its shell will hit the target.
1991	The then instructs motors to slew the turret and raise the gun barrel by the appropriate amount.
1991	One way is to take a cross-sectional X-ray picture of the tree with tomography.
1991	The unit changes what it ‘sees’ into a digital form and records this onto a floppy disc, from which the data are translated by into an image of the tree's insides.
1991	Tree physiology and dendrochronology are just two of the possible applications for portable tomography.
1991	The has been taught fishing tricks: it jiggles the line to make the squid think the bait is alive.
1991	When the tension reaches a preset point as the line becomes heavy with struggling squid, the gives the order to reel them in.
1991	It has a list of consultants around the country who examine requests for loans that involve esoteric technologies in or telecommunications for instance.
1991	He tells us — largely as he must have heard it from the horse's mouth — the history of programmed machines, the development of McCarthy's own interest in combining human common sense with the brute number-crunching force of early , and how this led to his own contributions, perhaps the best-known of which is the invention of LISP, now the standard programming language of artificial intelligence.
1991	The result is that they fail to do the jobs they take on, witness the case of an operating system for the PERQ (This Week, 20 January, p 144).
1991	THE on board HMS Sheffield functioned effectively prior to and during the attack; allegations that the Exocet missile was mistakenly identified as friendly are without foundation.
1991	Despite the evident lack of competitiveness of much of the British economy, and the impact of the first oil crisis, total employment showed no overall fall during the 1970s, a decade which witnessed the widespread diffusion of .
1991	A measure of automation based on a and a punched-tape system was introduced and this helped cut costs and speed production.
1991	the demand for engineers, technicians, programmers and software experts can be expected to increase sharply.
1991	ABOUT 15 YEARS ago the scientist Joseph Weizenbaum announced that he had discovered a new personality type — the compulsive programmer.
1991	In their paper, ‘The psychology of robots’, Henry Block and Herbert Ginsburg speak of ‘computerniks — those starry eyed young men who can be found loitering at installations at all hours of the day and night.’
1991	They spend hours and hours coaxing the to perform extravagant tasks.
1991	First of all, the hacker generally becomes a very proficient programmer, developing particular skills through constant practice and problem-solving.
1991	Secondly, the hacker makes a friend of the .
1991	Then there are the negative effects, and it is these which have been stressed in the warnings of scientists, university doctors, and in the various confessions of ex-hackers.
1991	When not so transfixed, they often sit at tables, strewn with outputs over which they pore like possessed students of a cabbalistic text.
1991	If possible they sleep in cots near the .’
1991	Computing becomes an end in itself as the fledgling hacker gets sucked into the loop between the human and the .
1991	I have seen students who were initially persuaded rather against their will, to use a for solving some statistical problem in psychology become addicted within a very short time.
1991	The acts as a substitute for human friends, perhaps, but the infatuation may also bring about the end of existing relationships.
1991	In an article entitled ‘The men who fall for their ’ Jane McLoughlin examined this new phenomenon.
1991	Under such pressure the hacker broke down and confessed: ‘…he began to talk of the pleasure he got out of playing the weirdest experimental games with the …
1991	This wife stood by her afflicted husband and even expressed fears about what might happen if the firm were to remove him from his electronic friend: ‘I know it sounds funny, but I'm afraid that losing that may break his heart.’
1991	However, the dismal picture which some scientists have painted of hackerhood, it should be noted, applies only to extreme cases.
1991	A Russo-American expedition heads for Jupiter and the abandoned spaceship Discovery, the murderous but deactivated HAL (not HAL's fault he turned nasty, he was driven mad by security regulations), and the lurking black monolith which sent astronaut Bowman through that lengthy light-show and metamorphosis into mystic star Child.
1991	Talking Turtle (BBC2, 14 February) was Horizon's thoroughly stimulating presentation of Papert's work — in particular his invention of LOGO, the first high-level language specifically designed for education, and of small robot turtles, programmed by LOGO which encourage the development of mathematical skills.
1991	His ideas are being applied in settings as diverse as a rich Dallas school (one for every five pupils) and an institution for the severely handicapped (who use their turtles to thereby explore space in a way otherwise denied them).
1991	Under control, these should exactly define the imaging surface.
1991	This is the first issue for a decade or so that has been typeset with the aid of a and phototypesetting.
1991	The has taken over.
1991	This isn't the place to go into the details of the technology — turn to page 237 for the sordid facts — but it may be worth saying that the brings a new flexibility to the typesetting.
1991	The has dealt what will prove to be a mortal blow to the ‘priesthood’ of printing — those who have spent many years gaining the skills needed to turn a typescript into a printed page.
1991	Oddly enough, recent developments in the technology have tolled the death knell for another priesthood — that of the company expert.
1991	When the was the domain of the ‘data processing department’— with double doors to keep out unwanted irritants like dirt, warm air and people who didn't understand what was going on within — the resident team of programmers and operators went unchallenged.
1991	It now costs significantly less to buy a — or a ‘work station’ as it is known in the trade — than it does to pay someone to sit behind it.
1991	How can the priesthood survive when everyone is a member?
1991	The answer is that it cannot, so the expert within a large organisation is an endangered species.
1991	In future the expert will be the outsider who works for the manufacturer or as an independent adviser.
1991	Thus it is important for the experts to adapt if they are to maintain some grasp, albeit a tenuous one, on the in their organisations.
1991	It doesn't matter that fears of massive redundancies among office staff that greeted the first large proved groundless.
1991	Those left behind after the turmoil at our printers are, it seems, coming to enjoy their new work, despite numerous shortcomings in the that are supposed to make their lives easier.
1991	Those ‘threatened’ by the should recall that they are dealing with an ‘idiot machine’that can do nothing without them.
1991	All the can do is to reduce the drudgery, freeing the brain in front of the screen to do more productive things.
1991	A 's comic cuts block the Serpell line
1991	Yet its proposals are derived from a model of the railway network that produces nonsensical results — including siting the terminus of one main line in the middle of a Scottish peat bog.
1991	They arise from the inadequacy of the model, and discredit Serpell's conclusions.
1991	Consultants Travers' Morgan appear to have used a 1000 link model in the analysis for Serpell.
1991	Here Serpell's was programmed to assume ‘the loss of freight revenue from the deletion of a link to be limited to the revenue directly attributed to the link.’
1991	The model suggests that losses on the passenger services would be off-set by a profit on the freight.
1991	A team of some 100 scientists and engineers at the laboratory, including about 15 astronomers from all three participating countries, will perform a quick, preliminary analysis of the data.
1991	From the US, the consultant Carl Machover, speaking at the Graphics conference in London last autumn, echoes the HSE's findings.
1991	The fireman will be another casualty of the modern steam age: his place in the cab will be taken by a which will monitor the coal feed closely, to keep smoke down to an absolute minimum.
1991	For the second time in its history,New Scientist is attempting to move from a printing process based on solid metal type to one in which a stores the words.
1991	The idea is not new — a Hungarian engineer designed the first photocomposing machine in 1894 — but its widespread adoption depended on the to select characters at high speed from an optical storage disc.
1991	Our second attempt to embrace the age — as our pages frequently urge our readers to do — is a lot more sophisticated.
1991	Instead of punched tape, magnetic discs store the information for two independent , which control two photosetters.
1991	After the clatter of the Linotypes, the tick-tick-tick of keyboards sounds eerie and aseptic .
1991	Although the has a hyphenation dictionary (it knows how to split words that come at the end of a line), a skilled composer can usually do a better job.
1991	The top story, about police , turned out to be slightly too long when it appeared in print.
1991	It would make life a lot simpler to do these alterations when the words exist as digits in a 's memory, rather than as solid chunks of metal in the composing room.
1991	It needs only one breakdown to stop the whole process, and if the operators are not careful whole pages can ‘disappear’ inside the .
1991	Also, like all , Index's system has its quirks.
1991	The results, compiled by , gave him a measure of the animal's total energy — kinetic energy due to its motion, and gravitational energy due to its distance off the ground — at any point during a stride.
1991	Although he seems to have the hang of it pretty well, a Harvard physicist named Thomas McMahon spent some time relearning this process on a .
1991	With graphics of stunning beauty, we are conducted through the weird world of Koch curves, Seirpinski carpets, Menger sponges, Fatou dusts, self-squared dragons, and Apollonian gaskets.
1991	Encyclopedia-type material can be presented, mixing still pictures, text and motion-picture sequences, that allow the viewer to interact with the programme and ultimately to link the player with a (see New Scientist , vol 96, p150).
1991	In Flight of Fancy (pp 64) he grapples with the problems of building a flying machine while Informagic (pp 72) finds him trapped in the workings of a giant .
1991	We could explain to viewers that cars are now built by robots, and use graphics so that people will understand how they're being totally dehumanised…’
1991	‘But we have graphics in the opening sequence.’
1991	The reason is, of course, that a few will be able to cope with the task of detecting the lies, evasions, inconsistencies, and omissions in our tax returns more surely, and much more rap idly, than the flesh and blood calculators whom they are about to replace.
1991	This Wednesday was for women in business, and design, but no one seemed to care.
1991	‘I'm here to find single women,’ admitted a scientist from Bell Labs, peering at my label,New Scientist ?
1991	The new system uses bulky counter-top terminals, installed in a selection of shops, to monitor record sales.
1991	All other age groups had their ‘tools’ for life — such as baby walkers, roller skates and .
1991	Chip makers want to shrink their chips to meet the demand for faster electronic devices and .
1991	But companies want faster chips, and faster means smaller.
1991	Water cooling eliminates the problem in mainframe , but smaller machinery must find an alternative.
1991	Very large-scale integration will be necessary to achieve goals such as complete on one chip.
1991	Intel claims that CHMOS will spawn a new generation of compact, portable and battery-driven electronic devices such as hand-held medical instruments, portable terminals, lightweight video recorders, and new ‘senses’ for industrial robots.
1991	In view of that stated aim, I was surprised to find no mention of Sherwood Idso's claims that all of the fuss is a result of climatologists barking up the wrong tree, misled by models which are all making the same mistake.
1991	The company spent some two years casting around for a successor to its best-selling and finally came up with a machine called Lisa named after the daughter of the company's founder Steve Jobs.
1991	So inflexible was this masterplan that when New Scientist attempted to introduce someone who knew nothing about to the machine (it is claimed to be very easy to use) we were turned down on the grounds that ‘this would upset the timetable’.
1991	net will check on UK visitors
1991	GOVERNMENT officials are planing to install a network of at dozens of British ports and airports to monitor the millions of travellers who enter and leave Britain each year.
1991	Last month, the home secretary, William Whitelaw, revealed that fully-automated terminals at Heathrow, which will read the new MRPs, could be linked to a list of suspects held on a .
1991	But he insisted that the Heathrow trial ‘will be entirely self-contained at Heathrow and will not be connected to any other system.’
1991	Last year Timothy Raison, then a minister of state at the Home Office, said: ‘There are no present plans to link Heathrow airport with the immigration and nationality department , which is now at Bootle.’
1991	But, according to Home Office memos shown both to New Scientist and to Computing magazine, ‘the systems might be linked to form a distributed network encompassing the whole country’, with the centre of the network located at the Home Office ADP unit in Merseyside.
1991	Nationality Department Electronic system (INDECS).
1991	Since August 1980 the unit's has identified visitors who overstay their permitted time in Britain by matching landing and embarkation cards.
1991	The details are entered, via terminals linked to phone lines, into the Bootle .
1991	The Bootle notifies the Croydon office if it does not receive notice of an embarkation card by the time the visitor's time us up.
1991	Phase two of INDECS will involve automating the process further, The cards will be replaced by terminals at ports, which will automatically register those visitors who are given leave to stay in Britain for a fixed period.
1991	The terminals will be linked to minicomputers, which will in turn be linked to the mainframe — ICL 296's — in Bootle.
1991	The Home Office has another intelligence-gathering , at the Harmondsworth headquarters of its illegal immigration intelligence unit.
1991	Most of the names in this are of black people.
1991	The Harmondsworth is not part of the INDECS operation.
1991	Lord Avebury, the Liberal peer, intends to press the government for further details about the Harmondsworth and the plans to link passport-reading terminals into a national network.
1991	The Home Office confirmed this week that the Bootle — a Prime 550-uses a software package called status.
1991	HMS SHEFFIELD, the first and most devastating British, naval loss of the Falklands War, was hit by an Argentinian Exocet missile because the ship's was programmed to recognise the Exocet as friendly.
1991	Immediately after the sinking, all aboard the rest of the task force in the south Atlantic were reprogrammed to correct the error.
1991	And the successfully identified it as an Exocet.
1991	But the Royal Navy, which was geared up to fight the Soviet Union rather than a country operating Western weapons, had not reprogrammed the to register Exocet as being hostile.
1991	Antennas around the top of the ship pick up the radar signals and a works out details such as their frequency, the type of modulation and the intervals between pulses.
1991	It compares this information with electronic ‘library’ that is stored in the of all radars that the ship is likely to encounter.
1991	The problem with HMS Sheffield was that Exocet's homing radar was not on the 's list of enemy equipment.
1991	Immediately after the sinking of HMS Sheffield, the Royal Navy changed its policy and reprogrammed all Abbey Hill in the task force so that they would recognise the lethal Exocet missile as foe rather than friend.
1991	French flock to centre
1991	The Centre Mondial is a walk-in centre where ordinary people can try their hand at .
1991	THERE IS a place in the leafy Avenue Matignon, just off the Champs-Elysées, where children and grown-ups can learn to use at their ease.
1991	Their dream was nothing less than a revolutionary project to bring and ordinary people together.
1991	The founders' concern was to reverse the popular view of as a threat rather than a benefit to the peoples of the world.
1991	He is a folk hero in microcomputing circles for his development of LOGO (a high-level language popular with teachers) and his book Mindstorm .
1991	The book, inspired by the Swiss educational theorist Jean Piaget, describes how contact with can help children develop a sense ‘of the deepest ideas from science, from mathematics, and from the art of intellectual model building’.
1991	On the ground floor of the plush Avenue Matignon headquarters, children sit absorbed in front of banks of Apple II .
1991	The day I was there, all the children were boys, but this apparently has more to do with French culture than culture.
1991	One group is developing hardware for a personal , sufficiently robust and inexpensive to be useful in the Third World.
1991	In addition is a project to explore applications of personal in France, with emphasis on the needs of children, unemployed people and the elderly.
1991	which operate reliably in classrooms and offices in Boston, London or Paris, may quickly fail in a dusty village in Senegal.
1991	His model of what learning should be like is taken from the ‘Samba schools’ in Rio de Janeiro, where experts and stars gather a coterie of followers and students to prepare for the carnival.
1991	But Papert wants something more, as he wrote in Mindstorm : ‘I want to know what kind of culture can grow in communities where there is not already rich technophilic soil.
1991	The applications of Papert's ideas to the Third World had more to do with Servan-Schreiber's priorities, than with the immediate concerns of the scientists the politician had gathered.
1991	It is to emphasise that Papert is fighting major battles over the nature of the relationship between and education.
1991	He does not see as a mere aid to teaching, but as an integral part of providing a child with Piagetian materials to learn with.
1991	Papert evidently dislikes many of the first uses of in education, but is more interested in their power to transform schools than to abolish them.
1991	It is a more complex tension between the time it takes for any educational system to assimilate innovation, and the pressing need of manufacturers and software publishers to market new products.
1991	Recognising the pressures on teachers, and the billions of dollars, pounds, francs or yen which give weight to those pressures, does not invalidate a central premise of the founders of the centre.
1991	It is clear when talking to people like Papert, Monpetit (who heads LOGO Systems in Montreal), or Dr Harry Goldberger, director of the medical programme, that they are not simply colleagues.
1991	LOGO emerged from the laboratories of MIT into personal in the 1980s.
1991	Papert said that people at MIT considered it was ‘as unacceptable for children to enter the culture by learning languages, such as BASIC as it would be to confine their reading of English poetry to pidgin English translations’.
1991	Papert does not claim that LOGO either a final product or the ‘definitive language’; it is one of a growing family of such languages, which are in a very early stage of their developments.
1991	The idea challenges scientists and non-scientists alike, including people who may never write a program in their lives, to come to terms with and understand what they are about
1991	In Servan-Schreiber's theory, the next generation of cheap personal , accessible to ordinary conversation in hundreds of different languages, would begin to replace cars and radios as the principal vectors of cultural exchange and development.
1991	Meanwhile, scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) were looking for ways to place their research into artificial intelligence at the service of people (as distinct from the service of the United States Department of Defence).
1991	The move changed the spirit of the centre; it became less concerned with education and more concerned with French sales to the Third World.
1991	LOGO is a high-level language specifically written to make make sense to children.
1991	It is controlled by a keyboard and it understands LOGO's simple commands.
1991	Now the child sits at the screen.
1991	The now responds to the command SQUARE by drawing a square 50 x 50 units.
1991	These results are a valid introduction to central concepts of programming.
1991	The child programs the , and not vice versa.
1991	Seymour Papert may be an educational Utopian, but he and his associate Guy Monpetit at LOGO Systems in Montreal have one trick that other software houses will envy.
1991	The contenders for this order comprise Seaguard, made by Contraves in Switzerland; Goalkeeper, with Dutch radars and an American gun; VM30, with the same gun but British radars and ; and an improved version of the American Phalanx that the Royal Navy hastily bought last summer to equip its new aircraft carrier, HMS Illustrious.
1991	‘There are 1 million home in the country which could be adapted for Prestel…there is the potential of a quantum leap in Prestel usage.
1991	Three and a half years ago, six programmers gave up their regular jobs to form Computercraft.
1991	Their idea was to set up a cooperative to supply skills to voluntary groups and other co-ops, and to develop new software for the purpose.
1991	One of the co-op's big successes was designing the software for a graphics system called the Bit Stik.
1991	The strength of the system is it allows someone with no knowledge whatever of to draw high-quality graphics on a comparatively low-powered microcomputer.
1991	The group's philosophy is that should increase, rather than decrease, workers' participation in industry, For example, large cooperatives could install a in canteens, on which workers could experiment with different ways of management, or discover various implications of increasing wages, for example .
1991	that think by Margaret Hyde Enslow, pp 126, $8.95, pbk $4.95
1991	Our own powers of visual perception and understanding language are both apparently effortless and introspectively obscure — which leads people to underestimate the difficulty of simulating these rich information-processing capacities in a .
1991	That Think raises some socially important and intellectually fascinating questions about the relation of man and machine, and its intelligibility will prompt discussion on these important matters.
1991	often conjure up images of whirling tapes on giant machines, or of bespectacled precocious kids wrestling with incomprehensible maths.
1991	Three books on Clive Sinclair's £125 colour , the ZX Spectrum, go a long way to dispelling both impressions.
1991	It seems, according to the authors of the books, that — especially the spectrum — are fun .
1991	Not just the fun of zapping Space Invaders, or defending the Earth from noxious aliens, but the fun of challenging the to brain puzzlers.
1991	The three books which give this impression of relentless fun are The ZX Spectrum and how to get the most out of it (hardly a winner of the snappy title award) by Ian Sinclair (Granada, pp 144, £5.95), and Easy programming for the ZX spectrum and puzzles for spectrum and ZX81 by Ian Stewart and Robin Jones (shiva, pp 144, £5.95 and pp 64, £2.50).
1991	The ZX Spectrum and Easy Programming attack the same problem area — what the hell do you do once you have unpacked your , tried to understand the manual, and realise it is written by people who seem to have forgotten that most of their readers will be neophytes?
1991	Stewart and Jones have produced something extremely rare — a instruction manual written with verve, life and humour.
1991	My only solid criticism of the book is that the programs are typeset, rather than— as in Sinclair's book — being dumped directly from the to the ZX printer.
1991	The third book,Puzzles for Spectrum and ZX81 (the ZX81, by the way, is the £50 black-and-white predecessor to the Spectrum) is a light book, redolent with Jones/ Stewart humour.
1991	Once you have learnt it all,Puzzles will give you something to run whenever one of your friends makes that irritating remark: ‘It's very nice…but what can you do with it?’
1991	Four-letter
1991	This had little to do with the but it did spur us into action.
1991	We've had a few technical difficulties with the , or rather our printer has had trouble with it.
1991	For example, there are two in the system; five keyboards feed into one and four into another.
1991	Each is connected to a phototypsetting machine.
1991	The two should be able to talk to each other so that all of the keyboards can make the typesetting equipment jump into action.
1991	Unfortunately, the people who make the system decided to redesign the bit that connects the two — they've been redesigning it for months.
1991	The keyboards could put copy into the but because of the software problem the refuse to release it.
1991	With luck we'll survive any other difficulties that the decides to throw our way.
1991	NEW NETWORKS of , which swap information about individuals, may become fertile ground for information thieves, says the latest annual report from France's data protection commission.
1991	The commission, which was set up in 1978, says the threat to the confidentiality of the masses of information on individuals now held on is a major cause for concern and ‘the problems of network security should be addressed urgently’.
1991	aid in trouble
1991	Now France says it wants to concentrate its effort to help less developed countries to make the best use of technology through its World Centre for Informatics, in Paris.
1991	IBM has filed a civil suit against Hitachi and two silicon Valley companies to recover its stolen property and to prohibit them from using any illegally-obtained information in future designs.
1991	Meanwhile, Apple has stepped up its campaign against companies allegedly making counterfeit Apple 11 (New Scientist , 18 November 1982 p 407).
1991	The company has asked the International Trade Commission to forbid the entry into the United States of counterfeit and components.
1991	It accuses 22 companies — most of them in Taiwan — of making counterfeit Apple .
1991	It names 16 ‘sunrise’ industries for support including biotechnology, technology, robotics, industrial ceramics and solar technology.
1991	Even fraction of a second, the optical density of the nucleus is measured and stored in the 's memory.
1991	The can be programmed to display immediately the number of nuclei that are abnormally stained.
1991	The programs, which cost $500 and run on an Apple II , compute the direction and level of sound coming from anything up to 15 different sources at selected points on the ground.
1991	So says Paul Gretton-Watson, a consultant from the British firm Scicon.
1991	John Searle is not represented directly, but the Churchlands challenge his cat-among-the pigeons argument, purporting to show that cannot in principle ever understand , though they can handle effectively symbols or tokens.
1991	He also believes that a Martian might be able to understand symbols (and so apparently assumes that the Martian is not going to be at all like any future (IBM ).
1991	Searle's position can have cogency only if he can show that a which is allowed to look through the window (and preferably touch things as well) could not succeed, though in these conditions the Westerner would succeed.
1991	But Searle does not show why the would not do as well as the Westerner, in conditions where he or it can learn meanings.
1991	Allen's colleague Jeremy Bailey has produced a program that colour-codes the view at each wavelength and then adds them together to produce these multicolour views.
1991	In the same year, underwater cameras slung from moored boats in Urquhart Bay by Dr R. H. Rines of the Academy of Applied Science, Concord, New Hampshire, produced photographs which, when enhanced by , appeared to show a flipper-like object.
1991	Schools and hobbyists — the kind of people who own home — are among the biggest customers.
1991	In 1950 Stanislaw Ulam, an applied mathematician, showed without the use of a high-speed that earlier estimates regarding Part 1 had been over-optimistic and that the whole concept was probably impracticable.
1991	There seems to be no particular reason why the idea should not have cropped up earlier (or indeed, later) but, according to Bethe, its practical implementation could probably not have been much advanced because this depended on the development of high-speed and highly efficient fission triggers; neither of these requirements could have been met at the beginning of 1950.
1991	It is certainly true that, given the right circumstances, can ‘reduce the drudgery, freeing the brain in front of the screen to do more productive things’.
1991	I suspect that the reason for a terminus in that town has more to do with the presence of several bonded warehouses than with objective modelling.
1991	Perhaps the model wishes to continue receiving supplies of the ‘creative inspiration’ which it obviously used.
1991	For this reason it is important to use the best models and codes that have been validated by experiments such as those carried out in the loss of fluid test (LOFT) facility in Idaho (New Scientist , vol 93 p 521).
1991	Most trees used in the analysis of reactor accidents are much more complex than this simple illustration, and we have to develop programs to calculate the probability of the ‘top’ failure.
1991	Within weeks you will see the changes resulting from the 's invasion of our printer.
1991	Japan challenges the giant
1991	Business mythology has it that firms in Japan are no good at software and will never break the dominance of IBM, the world's biggest company.
1991	But important changes in the way are sold are beginning to favour the Japanese
1991	Japan's electronics companies are well on their way to attaining their often stated goal — breaking IBM's stranglehold on the world's industry.
1991	The American firm accounts for some 60 per cent of the world's annual sales of and has a turnover around $30000 million.
1991	In 1980, it spent $1.5 billion on research, more than the whole of the Japanese industry.
1991	These figures make IBM a natural target for Japan's electronics firms, which are relative newcomers to but have high aspirations of success.
1991	But since 1977, the country's manufacturers have consistently matched the American company's price reductions.
1991	The most important challengers to IBM are Fujitsu, Hitachi, and NEC (which all make large or ‘mainframe’ ) followed by three big electronics firms, Mitsubishi Electric, Oki and Toshiba.
1991	The latter specialise in business , word processors and ‘peripheral’ equipment for attaching to .
1991	Between 1975 and 1980 annual production of Japanese manufacturers increased by 139 per cent to $4700 million (1293 billion Yen).
1991	The Japanese have advanced in the face of claims by many observers that they are poor at developing software — the instructions that make operate.
1991	Increasingly these instructions are becoming more important in determining the power and flexibility of than the machines' electronic parts or hardware.
1991	Over the past 20 years Japanese firms have, in fact, developed highly sophisticated applications software.
1991	They go about this work, however, in a way somewhat different from firms in other nations.
1991	It also tends to reduce the scope for independent software firms: there are few software houses not working for the manufacturers.
1991	Once this is done, Japan's electronics companies will begin to compete in a market that is only just emerging — selling software packages for personal .
1991	By 1985 between 10000 and 15000 software packages will become available for the owners of personal in Japan, according to estimates.
1991	To hasten this process, the Japanese government is helping private industry through its Basic Technology Research Association.
1991	Significantly, leading Japanese makers have adopted export strategies similar in some respects to those of the car industry.
1991	But quite unlike car manufacturers, Japanese makers began by exporting the high end of the product line rather than beginning with lower-priced models and trading up.
1991	This strategy was possible because they have sold mainframes mostly to vendors in the country concerned rather than through direct sales channels.
1991	The companies' exports of equipment have therefore begun with small business or personal — product areas in which IBM is far from dominant.
1991	Contrary to the view of many observers in the industry, the reliance of Fujitsu and Hitachi on plug compatibles is not a sign of technological weakness.
1991	To produce that can be used interchangeably with IBM requires a high level of technical capability.
1991	Fujitsu was the only Japanese mainframer which developed its own technology from the outset, producing its first in 1954.
1991	In 1966, solid state , developed under the direction of Drs Hanzo Omi and Toshio Ikeda, were exported for the first time.
1991	It has developed its own operating systems (the basic software on which the firm's machines run) and its own international marketing organisation, with an emphasis on personal .
1991	Bearing eloquent witness to the strength of this strategy, NEC's total sales in 1981 surpassed those of Hitachi to make it second only to Fujitsu among Japanese makers.
1991	The outlook for Japan's firms is made brighter by several major changes in the way the machines are sold which favour the existing strengths of its industry.
1991	First, the market is becoming increasingly diversified.
1991	People buy or computer-controlled products not just for offices but for a host of other places such as factories and homes.
1991	As the price of decreases and as they become incorporated in a wide range of domestic goods, from cookers to calculators, the ordinary consumer is becoming a major purchaser of electronic gadgetry.
1991	The broadening market for equipment suits Japanese manufacturers down to the ground.
1991	Unlike the American industry, which is characterised by firms that make a narrow range of goods, all six of the top Japanese electronics firms make semiconductors and telecommunications equipment as well as .
1991	The four firms that make mainframes — Fujitsu, Hitachi, NEC and Mitsubishi Electric — also turn out personal and office , terminals, word processors and robots.
1991	The second trend that favours the Japanese is that manufacturers are starting to abandon the traditional ways of selling their machines directly to customers.
1991	This approach, which requires special sales and maintenance centres, is obsolescent now that are becoming a consumer item.
1991	It is significant that Japanese firms are not adverse to joining forces with American rivals of IBM; for instance, Mitsubishi and Sperry Univac recently decided to cooperate in some technical areas as a way of combating the very large makers.
1991	Fourthly, semiconductor engineering is playing a growing role in the manufacture of .
1991	Not by accident, the leaders in chip design and production in Japan are also the strongest companies.
1991	And the leadership in VLSI (very large-scale integration) technology built up since 1976 puts Japan in a good position to move into the vanguard in future developments in .
1991	These forms of production will increasingly apply to the manufacture of — and this is yet another area in which Japanese firms could turn out to have an edge on the rest of the world.
1991	If it is not a mechanical arm, controlled by a and capable of varied tasks, then it is no robot.’
1991	The project is headed by the ministry's Electrochemical Laboratory and involves about 10 major robot, and machinery manufacturers.
1991	Twenty company divisions for electrical machinery, , communications, measuring instruments and systems engineering all cooperate in robotics work.
1991	Fujitsu is Japan's biggest manufacturer of mainframe and is a leader in office automation equipment.
1991	Last year, for the first time, it produced more than Hitachi, and took second place in the field to Fujitsu.
1991	Up to £40 million per year, for the next five years, has been earmarked for projects that should keep Britain up with research for the next generation of systems.
1991	Four key areas are fast chips, systems that hold human knowledge, methods of mass-producing software and improved ways of talking to .
1991	The German company Nixdorf recently announced an expert system designed by a man called Stuart Savory.
1991	ICL, BRITAIN'S only manufacturer of large , has set up a ‘knowledge engineering group’ to exploit so-called expert systems.
1991	These are software products in which the expertise of a particular discipline medicine, say — is encapsulated within a program so that non-experts can make use of it.
1991	But the company believes that it has some products it can sell new, notably software for diagnosing faults in .
1991	Expert systems will be key elements of ‘fifth generation’ and ICL's announcement came the day after the government gave its response to the Alvey report (p 272)
1991	This fact has emerged during a pilot test of a new program developed by scientists for the Department of Transport.
1991	The can check for towns that are missed off signs, those that appear for no good reason or appear only intermittently, to the great confusion of amateur navigators.
1991	Japanese firms in court again
1991	American firms are not letting up on their law suits against ‘copy cat’ Japanese rivals.
1991	Last year more than 12 million Z80 chips were sold around the world and incorporated into , telecommunications equipment and peripherals.
1991	Scientists at the fire Research Station are developing a program that can model how smoke behaves — but, with the many variables involved, it will be a long job.
1991	Until can take over, the only way to carry out experiments is to build a full-sized test rig, and set it on fire.
1991	Can you copyright a 's syntax?
1991	ANYONE using a language could end up having to pay royalties for the privilege, if a British court case being brought by a company called Filetab Support Services is successful.
1991	The case will establish whether the syntax of languages can be held copyright.
1991	Filetab is trying to prevent a firm called Ace Microsystems from selling a program on the grounds that the language in which it is written is owned by Filetab.
1991	The language was incorporated into a program called Filetab, which was designed for looking up information held on file in mainframe .
1991	The result was a program called Lex-11, which runs on both the PDP-11 and a number of 16-bit microcomputers.
1991	While copyright cases have been won on the grounds that manuals, and other documents that go with software, have been copied, no one has yet been able to claim copyright on the syntax of a language.
1991	An international team of distinguished academics reported recently in the journal Minerv'a that ‘We were particularly amazed to discover that the autonomy of German universities to make admissions policies and admissions has been substantially curtailed by the establishment of a single central admission procedure, the ZVS, located in Dortmund and utilising a programmed ’.
1991	This is how a number of prototype LC terminals work.
1991	cartoonists in a bottleneck
1991	AFTER 20 years of technical development designers who use graphics to produce animated films are still stymied by a technological bottleneck.
1991	Although and software are getting better and cheaper all the time, there is still no way of transferring pictures from a 's memory straight onto videotape or film.
1991	After years of striving to produce graphics that look like human drawn animations or live photography, the bosses in the film and TV business now say they want graphics to look more like graphics.
1991	It costs £100000 a minute to produce top quality graphics, on a system costing £10 million, so the people paying do not want something that looks as if it was shot with a camera for a few thousand pounds.
1991	So some animators in Europe are looking at much cheaper ways of making graphics.
1991	These are then traced on a touch-sensitive drawing board to make digital data signals which are dumped in the memory.
1991	But now that animation looks so real, some advertising agencies are insisting that the images they pay For must look as if they have come from a .
1991	But in London, the Middlesex Polytechnic teaches 200 students a year with one system costing £100 000.
1991	All the snowflake effects used by the BBC to advertise its programmes last Christmas were generated on the Middlesex .
1991	Every studio, big or small, still faces the same technical problem.
1991	As a final step, all the animation data in the memory store must be transferred onto video tape or film, one picture frame at a time.
1991	A fortune awaits any engineer who can devise a way of transferring, in real time, a sequence of animation direct from a 's memory to video tape or film.
1991	But by the time the scheme goes into year-round service, in 1985, will cut the time-lag down to just four hours.
1991	All-digital circuits, like those in a , handle the signal.
1991	will do the physical ‘tweaking’ needed to adjust the picture, and to control quality.
1991	And if a set goes wrong later, a service engineer can bring the picture back to normal by plugging in a handset which re-adjusts the circuits in the same way.
1991	SCIENTISTS in California are developing a new kind of memory, based on a photochemical bleaching process.
1991	George Castro, one of the scientists on the project, says optical memories are a ‘long shot, but a serious possibility’.
1991	He also highlights the well-known dangers of people becoming addicted to (New Scientist , 24 February, p 532).
1991	‘Future friends’, the first part, describes the history of and the way that they are currently developing.
1991	Frude starts the second section, ‘Encountering the inanimate’, by examining the various types of interaction that people and can have.
1991	In one evocative passage, during a discussion of animism and the development of automata, he refers to a six-year-old girl showing her doll how a works and explaining that it is a friend.
1991	The final part ‘Towards the intimate machine’, discusses the possibility of developing systems with personalities and the ability to adjust to the need of the human user.
1991	The book concludes with a review of the possible impact of more intimate , for good or ill, in various areas of human life.
1991	The Intimate Machine raises many issues concerning the social impact of in an invigorating and highly readable manner.
1991	Modern geometry finds expression in graphics.
1991	graphics is, among other things, just what the mathematician needed: an appropriate mechanism for turning algebra into forms.
1991	Transformational geometry is one particular area of mathematics for which the is the ideal tool.
1991	Indeed, geometric transformations are fundamental to much graphics technique, for producing perspective drawings, for rotating ‘objects’ in space, and other data manipulations.
1991	With the aid of a what was hitherto discussed in theory and indicated in schematic diagrams can now be drawn electronically, with great speed, accuracy, and richness of detail.
1991	The basic way a performs a geometric transformation relies on the Cartesian coordinate system, an invention of the French mathematician and philosopher René Descartes in the 17th century.
1991	However, there are 20 pieces (eight corners and 12 edges) to restore and a piece may be in many different positions with respect to its home position, so such a method will involve solving many subproblems (239 to be exact) and this is not a very human strategy, though it is perhaps the easiest for a .
1991	A modern can count somewhere between 10 6 and 10 9 numbers per second and there are about 3–16 X 10 7 seconds in a year.
1991	Advertising elsewhere showed an astonishing rash of small for sale, all unique, guaranteed to produce prosperity, efficiency, amusement, and intellectual progress at negligible cost.
1991	chess bad-human Chess worse
1991	The best chess can beat all but the finest human players.
1991	The first 30 years of the age have spawned libraries of speculation as to the ultimate impact of on human dignity and morale.
1991	In any single game, a will make enough mistakes to illustrate a whole textbook of what not to do.
1991	The machines find them, or anyway, enough of them, so that the can often win despite an intrinsic quality of play that is so inane as to be comic, as is readily apparent when two play each other.
1991	The machines are the product of 30 years of research into chess.
1991	Right from the very dawn of the age, scientists have been interested in teaching a to play good chess.
1991	The problem of playing chess, whether for , humans or Martians, is picking a good, let alone the best, move out of the 30-odd legal possibilities present in the average chess position.
1991	That a can be taught to work like that has always been a controversial proposition; even today there are observers who believe that it is impossible to build a machine (at least with current programming techniques) that can plan even remotely as well as a human.
1991	Nonetheless, working in the artificial intelligence centres that began to open in the 1950s and 1960s, scientists began to make progress of a sort.
1991	But far worse, the 's grasp of specific positions was cripplingly short-sighted.
1991	The would then pick the play that would culminate, a ‘move’ later, in the best score.
1991	To do this systematically would require a to examine a quadrillion possibilities.
1991	There is nothing technically difficult about this; if the can look one play ahead it can look 20.
1991	It might be possible, using the latest technology, to build a today that could put scores on a million positions a second; such a machine would need more the 30 years to look five moves ahead.
1991	A built with the technology available in the 1950s have required millennia .
1991	To be practical (and tolerable) a should be able to find its move in an average of three minutes, which is the limit set by normal tournament regulations.
1991	The team that hit on the idea became cocky enough to predict that a would beat the world chess champion by 1967; but the concept has a logical flaw.
1991	It seems that for a to find a strong play, it first has to arrange the options in order of strength.
1991	As late as 1976, most serious chess players thought that the day when would play master-level chess was still far off.
1991	In that year a senior master and professor of psychology, Eliot Hearst of Indiana University, wrote in a long review article: ‘About the only way a current program could ever win a single game against a master player would be for the master, perhaps in a drunken stupor while playing 50 games simultaneously, to commit some once-in-a-year blunder…
1991	‘As it happened, that very year, for the first time, a won a tournament: a program developed by North-western University came in first in the Class B section of the Paul Masson American Chess Championship.
1991	In 1980 a built at Bell Labs began to win regularly, though not invariably, against masters.
1991	In 1981, a programming on a powerful Cray became the Mississippi State Champion.
1991	The Bell Labs machine referred to earlier (the World Chess Champion), can calculate scores for about 100000 positions a second.
1991	After all, why spend good money teaching to play chess, especially as the original objective, making a machine than can plan, had proved so intractable?
1991	The routed forces stream back across the board and behind them follow the now-superior armies of the .
1991	By contrast, anyone looking at the record of a attack would think it had been managed by a sadist wishing to extract the last possible drop of pain our of the victory.
1991	follow the same strategy that General Grant followed against the South: do nothing fancy, stay out of trouble, take no risks and just grind the opponent bit by bit, piece by piece and square by square, into the dust.
1991	This happens to be a good strategy for a side with material superiors, and have won quite a lot of games with this strategy.
1991	In short, win primarily through their ability to find and exploit miscalculations in human initiatives.
1991	Research into chess began with the hope of making a machine that could operate with ideas, generalisation and expectations, the way humans do.
1991	It may be that we can learn from something of what we have been missing in the game; or, that chess is so rich, that only a symbiosis between man and machine can explore it adequately.
1991	CONGRATULATIONS TO the 600 Group on the official opening of SCAMP — Six Hundred's Aided Manufacturing Project.
1991	, microchips and related hardware are undoubtedly destroying jobs throughout Britain.
1991	Routine, manual operations, which in many cases machines can do, are dying out and being replaced by skilled, technically orientated jobs which often involve either or the channelling of information by some other mechanism from one place to another.
1991	Firms in the area of information technology can be included here as, strictly, IT constitutes the subsection of the electronics industry that covers anything to do with , telecommunications or office equipment.
1991	The difference is explained by more efficient ways of making goods, to a large extent brought about by and electronics techniques themselves.
1991	Although no-one can deny the impressive growth of small electronics firms that make, for instance, personal (see ‘The Great British Small ’, p 639) the consultants said the IT industry:•is unimaginative in designing new products •lacks marketing ability •has insufficient skills in distributing goods •does not sell enough overseas •lacks enough big companies with comprehensive product and marketing strategies.
1991	The great British small
1991	A host of small British firms sells small and this activity consumes a great deal of the country's talent in electronics engineering.
1991	The new companies, many of them under a year old and employing no more than a couple of dozen people, base their on processor chips imported from the US.
1991	Another segment of the same emerging industry is involved in an equally fast-moving activity — developing the software that provides small for homes, offices and schools with instructions.
1991	Then he took a job with an American firm that sold time on its to outsiders.
1991	He originally planned to earn enough cash selling to pay for the time he spent on the race track.
1991	That idea changed when he grew interested in a set of software called Visicalc with which people can produce and manipulate tabular information on a screen.
1991	Since February last year, Ward has sold 3600 copies of the program, called Micromodeller, mainly to run on Apple .
1991	The company also exports programs to owners of in the United States.
1991	Eddie Bleasdale, managing director of Bleasdale Systems, sums up: ‘We never want to become a big company because it is just not our scene.
1991	The firm has scored a hit in adapting to its own a set of American software called Unix.
1991	The software is called an operating system; it controls the basic ‘housekeeping’ activities of a in a particularly efficient way.
1991	Bleasdale's own , called the BDC 60, is a ‘16-bit machine’.
1991	It handles chunks of data in a format 16 bits wide; most , by contrast, can digest data in only 8-bit streams.
1991	Five workers assemble Bleasdale's in a building in Lutterworth, Leicestershire, in which, four decades ago, Frank Whittle developed the jet engine.
1991	Following the trend of many new industries, firms that make often spring up near each other.
1991	Cambridge is the home of the British small .
1991	It was here that Sinclair Research, headed by Clive Sinclair, Britain's best known electronic entrepreneur, designed the ZX80, ZX81 and Spectrum .
1991	Other firms with particularly idiosyncratic names — Acorn, Torch, Camputers and Jupiter Cantab — have also set up in the city.
1991	Acorn, run by Herman Hauser and Chris Curry, pipped Sinclair to supply the BBC with a for its TV series,The Programme , which taught people to use the machines.
1991	Acorn also partly owns Torch , which sells a £2500 machine for business users.
1991	Like the made by Acorn, this can be plugged into what is called a local area network — a system of wires and terminals that connects small within a building.
1991	It all started in the 1970s when the Cambridge University Laboratory designed a network called the Cambridge Ring.
1991	So Xionics does not get involved in selling its network, which it calls Xinet; instead it has handed responsibility for this to a distributor.
1991	The network comprises a storage and control device which is linked to a ring of terminals and .
1991	Instead the system connects made by only one firm — Apple — so letting them share expensive disc files, printers and so on.
1991	Comart, of St Neots near Cambridge, started as a mail-order business, selling in kit form to electronics enthusiasts.
1991	After problems in obtaining components, Comart struck out on its own, producing its Comart Communicator, a small business .
1991	The system is what salesmen called ‘modular’: extra memory, storage, and processor chips can be added to fit the particular job the is expected to do.
1991	One firm that may have bucked that trend is Star , which has raised some £770000 by selling shares on the Stock Exchange.
1991	Founded by David Blechner and Jack Schumann in 1973, the firm started out as a bureau, hiring time on its to customers who used them for their own jobs.
1991	Blechner likens the operation of a bureau to a laundry.
1991	ACT was a bureau and systems house until five years ago when it started selling an American machine called the ADDS.
1991	In 1979 ACT bought Petsoft, a company that publishes programs for the Pet made by Commodore.
1991	This year, the firm has diversified even more — with a powerful American-built called Sirius, together with a set of business programs called Pulsar.
1991	So far ACT has sold 5000 of the , earning £8 million in the past six months.
1991	Of a total of 250 types of small on sale in Britain (a ‘small’ is defined as costing under £10000) about 30 are home-grown.
1991	Yet while companies like Sinclair and Acorn sell more in Britain than many of their overseas rivals, the products of the UK firms are relatively cheap, so the industry's overall sales are not high.
1991	For instance, Apple last year sold in Britain worth £42.5 million while Sinclair managed sales of just £8.6 million.
1991	Both firms have announced small and plan big sales campaigns.
1991	The fledgling companies also have to contend with the generally poor track record of Britain's financial institutions in backing high-technology firms with the kind of cash needed to turn little firms into big ones.
1991	Initially, the new system would break down as a result of faults in the programs.
1991	The machines included equipment with which an operator could do programming by editing the tapes that white-collar staff provided.
1991	Even though producing the tapes was primarily the responsibility of the staff, the machine operators insisted on correcting faults in the programming with the editing equipment.
1991	The programmers, however, remained disgruntled.
1991	For instance, management could have recognised right from the outset that the machinists had a vital role to play and not left this to be argued about in a battle with the staff.
1991	With star switching, people would find it relatively easy to connect devices such as microprocessors and business .
1991	It is a wasteful evasion of the problem to build English dictionaries into to correct people's spelling.
1991	The same techniques could be more usefully employed in standardising the printed word during transition, and the public would become acclimatised through everyday reading rather than need any special training.
1991	Like Britain's ICL, it was formed from several disparate companies offering different types of .
1991	Many of the once-vaunted French ‘peri-informatique’ companies (those making small and associated equipment) also came a cropper.
1991	Despite efforts by French publishers, very few firms sell software for the increasing numbers of owners in schools and at home.
1991	Olivetti has so far refused to play ball, effectively pocketing Saint Gobain's money which could have gone to its own company.
1991	Apple claims that Britain accounts for 35 per cent of the small sold in Europe, with Germany and France level at around 20 per cent.
1991	Software for large machines and services in general(bureaux for example ) add up to an important and successful industry; companies sell more equipment in France than any other part of Europe.
1991	Ironically again, French software and services companies have benefited little from direct government spending.
1991	Exploratory's trustees want to raise £2 million from industry (their main target is firms) to set up the centre and guarantee its future for at least three years.
1991	The project being proposed by the Commission would put up £450 million for collaborative work in and automation.
1991	Their decisions are largely based on experience, but programs are needed to store all the relevant data and assist the decision-making process.
1991	In the US in particular, scouts can telephone data to a regional and receive advice.
1991	But the name raises no smiles among manufacturers and software houses: Happy Chip is a tool for copying programs for Atari home .
1991	Psion Software, which produces material for Sinclair home , puts the figure at £2–9 million a year — 30 per cent of its turnover.
1991	Operations centre around clubs and groups of enthusiasts who cannot resist the challenge of copying something designed to be uncopiable (see Box).
1991	The pirates play an intricate and expensive cat-and-mouse game with firms.
1991	The main target for pirates are games that run on microcomputers.
1991	Business programs are difficult because they generally need periodical back-up from the supplier, and are not well enough established in schools for educational piracy to be worthwhile.
1991	One story is set at a show in Birmingham: a company representative visits the stand of a software firm, borrows its latest product, and runs off a copy in five minutes back at his own stand.
1991	Also it would involve firms in expensive re-designs. and at least part of this expense would find its way through to the end user.
1991	It is a little easier to protect software — but it is in the nature of the material that it must be copiable to be produced.’
1991	He looks forward to the day when home are so widespread that the price for software will drop by 75 per cent.
1991	Even then, Jobs predicts, illegal copies will circulate, but companies will be able to cost piracy in much the same way as shops cost shoplifting — as part of their business plans.
1991	A enthusiast in Britain used one last week to run off a copy of a £35 program in a little over four minutes.
1991	But at least one British pirate, who works as a engineer, is putting the problem of identifying them to his employer's IBM, which is normally employed in designing circuits.
1991	EVERY type of home and data storage system has its own method of copying.
1991	Here, we describe how pirates working on Atari 400 and 800 with disc drives deal with the company's ‘copyguards’.
1991	To copy them, the pirate has to feed the program into the 's memory, then read it back onto a disc.
1991	Atari makes it more difficult by writing into the operating system (the instructions that govern how the handles data) an instruction that does not allow the to talk to disc drive and cartridge at the same time.
1991	A much more elegant method is to re-program the 's operating system to remove the safeguard.
1991	All the pirate had to do was to read the source (original) disc into the 's memory, replace the source disc with a blank one, and write the program back on it.
1991	firms soon introduced copyguarding measures to stop pirates doing this.
1991	The drive reads these sectors, and feeds them to the .
1991	If the sector contains information, it goes to the , if it is blank the message is a series of zeros.
1991	If the does not receive this message, it does not execute the program.
1991	The 810 enhancement and back-up is a circuit board which plugs into the standard disc drive for Atari .
1991	IBM, the world's biggest firm, is lining up to grab a slice of a new growth market — processing images from satellites.
1991	Judith Gersting's Mathematical Structures for Science provides a lucid path through set, theory, logic, algebraic structures, and combinatorics; she covers them all in a quarter of the usual space, showing what a mess plenty of mathematics texts manage to make.
1991	Without so much as one cartoon, Valentine offers a brisk introduction to such perennials as the role of introspection, free will, the relation of psychology to physiology and some newer ‘big questions’, such as the role of humanistic psychology and in studying behaviour.
1991	Data for science
1991	Few of these books, however, have any relevance to teaching undergraduate science as they normally restrict themselves to a single language on a single make of .
1991	science is much more than just writing programs, and good books which combine systems understanding with language teaching are always welcome; Brian Mayoh's Problem Solving with Ada attempts to do this.
1991	Communication between people and is becoming increasingly important and selected topics should be included in all undergraduate courses.
1991	Visual communication, via graphics terminals, is an exciting activity, and J. D. Foley and A. Van Dam's Fundamentals of Interactive Graphics presents a mathematically difficult subject in an exciting way and deserves to become a major undergraduate text.
1991	The reverse process involves the recognition of pictures.
1991	Now that anyone can buy speaking toys, such as Texas Instruments's ‘Speak 'n Spell’, it is essential to include some reference to talking in any undergraduate course.
1991	Ian Witten's Principles of Speech is too detailed for general study, but could form the basis of a final-year option.
1991	in Society by Nancy and Robert Stern is really two books in one cover.
1991	The first half is a conventional ‘this is how a works’ book explaining concepts such as binary numbers and punched cards at a secondary school level.
1991	The second half is a useful elementary review of the impact are having in fields such as business, education, health and the arts.
1991	Both halves have their merits, but together their appeal will be limited to those teachers of science, who if lecturing on the impact of motor traffic on society, would spend half the time on the way sparking plugs work.
1991	This problem is not uncommon, as many books on applications, which might be suitable for undergraduate case studies, are padded out with material readily found in any good general introductory text.
1991	Essential Mathematics , by Seymour Lipschutz (in the Schaum's Outline Series in ), was added to our first-year reading list in the autumn.
1991	But I cannot see what I would do with a home , one of which I am continually being urged to buy by manufacturers and retailers and by drops in prices of the things that are as near as a toucher opening up my cheque book.
1991	Perhaps you can wrap fish and chips in output, but that, it seems to me, is the only asset I can think of for ordinary domestic life.
1991	ENTERPRISING students at California's Stanford University are making a mint from high technology by designing and marketing hardware and software.
1991	With Silicon Valley on their doorstep, the students are running small but growing companies from their dormitories and houses.
1991	Another student, working from a basement, grossed $100 000 last year by writing software and doing programming for 20 customers, including the physicist, Edward Teller, and economists, Milton Friedman and Arthur Laffer.
1991	The entrepreneurial bug is by no means confined to .
1991	India takes a hard line on software
1991	INDIA could be exporting 10 per cent of the world's software, worth $1000 million each year, by 1986.
1991	The scheme is the brainchild of the Society of India.
1991	Under the policy, companies that want to import to India have to show that they also have export orders for software.
1991	These must equal 20 per cent of the 's value.
1991	At one college 20 students graduated last year.
1991	‘It is quite clear that there is a major shortage of trained manpower in science in the US, which is threatening the technological progress of that country and the brain drain from India is helping to mitigate this problem.’
1991	India has very few fourth generation mainframe which have been available in the West for a number of years.
1991	Many companies run IBM 1401 , which were superseded by the IBM 360 in the early 1970s.
1991	Much of the $50 million of software exports in 1980 consisted of what is called conversion work: the recoding of programs so that they can be transferred from one to another.
1991	Executives claim that the government is fouling up development by preventing the influx of badly needed .
1991	The regulations are also open to abuse: one company was found to be importing old and exporting blank tape masquerading as software.
1991	A delegation of Indian software producers who came to Britain last year received only three responses from 190 British firms they visited.
1991	Roy Green, software field operations manager for the British firm, Systime, believes that India's best bet for expansion is to go for what is called systems software: programs that run the themselves.
1991	In any event an engineer must know his science and particularly the limitations on that knowledge but in general his scientific literacy does not help him either to design a product or to write a program to control the product's function.
1991	In the language of software say, this would mean careful attention to the derivation of the algorithm before a line of code is written.
1991	Because of the complexity of the polymer there were more than a thousand peaks or data points per sample but Burmester reduced this vast amount of information by clustering.
1991	Paradoxically, the only way to achieve ‘very large-scale integrations’ or a true ‘on a chip’will be to make components an order of magnitude smaller than today's chips.
1991	Europe calls the tune on graphics
1991	For the first time in history, the US is to drop one of its standards, in favour of the International Standards Organisation's (ISO) Graphic Kernel System (GKS).
1991	The organisation published a draft standard on graphics at the end of March.
1991	However, sales and industry standards are not always compatible in the world — and the Americans may be reluctant to fall into line, ‘This is probably the first time that the Americans have adopted a European standard,’ says Dave Garnett of the Cambridge software firm CIS.
1991	The market for graphics will be worth $8 billion by 1986, twice its 1982 value, according to the Pacific Technology Centre of California.
1991	GKS is an enormous work of 280 pages that describes a set of functions for graphics programming.’
1991	‘There are many people in graphics in the US who don't believe that anyone outside the country knows anything about the subject at all.’
1991	COULD ever take the place of generals on the battlefield?
1991	Taylor runs a government funded research team which is trying to develop a that can make the right tactical decisions as consistently as the top 10 per cent of generals.
1991	The next stage will be to put that ‘judgemental ability’ into a , teaching it to make intelligent guesses about events on the battlefield.
1991	The matches symptoms with diseases to draw up a hierarchy of hypotheses.
1991	This quickly produces a short-list of competing diagnoses, which the concentrates on — just as a human doctor would.
1991	If the top solution has a much higher score than the next one down, the concludes that this is the correct diagnosis.
1991	If not, the refers a short list to the doctor.
1991	The made slightly fewer incorrect diagnoses than its human rivals, although it did less well in making firm diagnoses.
1991	The TRW group is working on the same lines-but it will be a long time before GI Joe puts his faith in orders from General .
1991	Across there, with the addicts and dirty video users, the boys building their own bombs, is nothing.
1991	Talk , March 28/April 4 Okay, so people in glass houses…but a satellite in an envelope four-miles, or thereabouts, high ?
1991	Breakfast television, and the expanding number of screens switched on during working hours, could make work difficult for Mainsborne.
1991	But, if necessary, it can connect to timers, to a maximum demand controller (which keeps the site's power consumption within a limit set by the electricity board) or, for that matter, to a .
1991	The preface indicates that the three main themes are, first, music and language, secondly the perception and production of rhythm and, thirdly, the contribution of analysis to the understanding of musical processes.
1991	But the chapter, entitled ‘A model of music recognition’— whose title whetted my appetite considerably — proved to be little more than a pious hope that studying the way a can be programmed to recognise music might help to understand the way the human brain does it.
1991	I HAVE burned the midnight oil scanning the arid wastes of programming manuals, but at last a publisher has come up with a series of inexpensive, factually sound but palatable titles which aim to introduce the beginner to the fun that can be had with calculators, and cassette recorders.
1991	With these nine titles, Usborne Publishing has successfully demystified the World of Electronics (another title) by providing accurate but colourful technical illustrations combined with equally zany cartoon characters which bring to life the usual metaphorical explanations of how and other machinery from the age of IT works.
1991	They are also written in such a way as to be applicable to the most popular makes of , by giving variations in programming where necessary.
1991	I have come upon one or two cases of people who have acute sensitivity to electricity and to electrical devices, such as television sets, , radios, electric lights, etc.
1991	The swept vapour screen may be best employed for 3-D displays and component visualisation.
1991	According to Wang, the American government is particularly concerned about selling tracking equipment and for recording data from the spacecraft.
1991	Again, the Pentagon's fears that the could be used by the military defeated the Commerce Department, which sees the sale of advanced technology as crucial to improved Sino-American relations.
1991	Personal face registrar's rule
1991	SCIENTISTS, doctors, lawyers, accountants, journalists, newsagents — indeed anyone who stores the names and addresses of business contacts on a personal or word processor — could find themselves committing a criminal offence if government plans for data protection, presented to the House of Commons this week, becomes law.
1991	If a user continues to operate the after being struck off the list he will be guilty of a criminal offence and liable to an unlimited fine.
1991	Lawyers are worried about the rights to compensation that those who appear on will have if they can prove that they suffered damage by wrong information being stored about them.
1991	At the same time the bill gives sensitive police and government files a blanket exemption.
1991	The registrar will have a staff of about 20, but will have to look after a register of perhaps hundreds of thousands of .
1991	After her veto of the Alvey committee's plans to use government money to back a new era of research (last issue, p 3), ministers have now postponed publication of their White Paper on cabling Britain because two government departments cannot agree on how it should be paid for.
1991	CND denies smear
1991	THE CAMPAIGN for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) has denied claims that it ‘controls’ its membership through two at its North London headquarters.
1991	CND was accused of using its to record the political activities of its 60 000 members, to allocate them to local groups and check on their attendance at meetings.
1991	‘They are using the to gauge who would be suitable to attend certain meetings: they may want to exclude some of them.’
1991	But CND says that its are just used for recording members — names and addresses and their subscription payments.
1991	The personal — bought for £15 000, 15 months ago — are not even up to this job, said CND, and the organisation has spent the past year trying to exchange the system.
1991	‘It's just a glorified card index system,’ said Tony Allan, and membership secretary.
1991	‘It's a membership and that is all.’
1991	Fresh from wringing an admission of guilt from multinational competitor Hitachi (New Scientist , 17 February, p 428), the firm is now accusing a small band of its former employees in Silicon Valley of stealing trade secrets used in transferring information to and from discs.
1991	The device is used to write information onto discs and then read it back again.
1991	Another area of growing concern is theft from data banks.
1991	Can we adjust to culture?
1991	The expert and the inexpert met in New York last week to talk about and the future.
1991	NEW YORK'S Empire State Ballroom was packed for four days last week with people who knew little about .
1991	The deliberations irritated both groups a little because they realised that the gap is growing between those who run and those who don't.
1991	The occasion was the New York Academy of Science's conference on ‘Culture’.
1991	That was after he accused Berkeley's Philosophy Professor of having ‘idiotic’ notions during a long debate on whether will ‘think’like people in three centuries hence.
1991	It was also after one of only two psychologists present said that programmers and scientists were ‘arrogant’.
1991	Delegates and speakers alike expressed concern about the West's readiness and ability to adapt to life in a ‘culture’.
1991	Sometime in the future, he is chained to his and surrounded by his young captors.
1991	Norman studies how people interact with ; he works at the University of California in San Diego.
1991	remain mysterious to most people, the psychologist maintains, because of the ‘arrogance’ of scientists and programmers who understand their machines but who are indifferent about the rest of us.
1991	On the other hand, the rest of us have yet to realise that literacy will soon be as essential as driving a car.
1991	These included knowing the difference between hardware and software, the nature of an algorithm, machine architecture, multiprocessing (a doing several tasks at once), the notion of net-works of that talk to each other , and about data bases.
1991	Norman said that his day-dream was ‘to walk up to any , plug in the card and have the terminal look and act like the one at home.’
1991	Chapanis suggested that are not quite as easy to work as the glossy brochures suggest.
1991	IBM's PROF system for office workers is supposed to be for those with little or no experience of .
1991	It must change if it wants to get the most out of technology, two other speakers said.
1991	By taking the ‘man’ out of manual labour, Melman reasoned, make these principles obsolete.
1991	‘I have viewed a number of plants where the inception of equipment is viewed as a way to further de-skill the worker, and thereby lower his wage,’ Melman added.
1991	Melman told the tale of an American car parts manufacturer where one plant elected to perpetuate Taylorism when it installed , and the other agreed (as a condition of collective bargaining) to train workers to program, In the first plant, workers were designated ‘operators’ and paid $12–50 an hour; when their machine malfunctions they nip the on-off switch and call in a repairman.
1991	A designer was using a to specify plans for the igniter for an aircraft engine.
1991	A error moved a decimal place one unit to the right.
1991	Melman argued that decentralising control, to allow workers to make decisions, is the only way to prevent the ‘illusion’ that human knowledge is no longer necessary in manufacturing.
1991	Few forces can resist the unbridled optimism of a convocation of visionaries — certainly the unexploded Luftwaffe bomb found outside New Scientist's telex office in London could not suppress their message this week.
1991	Making ‘think’(not necessarily as humans do, but in a logical, inferential way so that they can do more than arithmetic) is a ‘grand vision’ for Edward Feigenbaum, one of the Prometheuses of AI, Feigenbaum is a scientist and senior investigator for heuristics (common rules of thumb for thinking) at Stanford University in California.
1991	He predicts that of the future will process knowledge, not numbers, using symbolic inferences, as in the familiar syllogism: all birds can fly; budgie is a bird; then budgie can fly.
1991	They are programs pumped full of plain old knowledge and heuristics lore from experts who lend their wisdom.
1991	‘will never replace executives,’ Robert Lucky reassured them.
1991	Lucky, director of communications research at Bell Labs, played prophet with Michael Dertouzis, director of MIT's laboratory for science.
1991	Executives will continue to run things in the world of culture, because they are schooled in dealing with complexity.
1991	‘The management of complexity is the key problem of our era,’ Lucky said, ‘and the people who will benefit from the revolution are those who are comfortable with complexity.
1991	In fact, complete ‘literacy’ is probably already meaningless.
1991	Nobody totally understands that kind of .’
1991	As the cost of hardware continues to drop (productivity is increasing at about 30 per cent per year in that industry) individualised programming and time-sharing would become expensive relics, he told the conference.
1991	would compete with manual labourers, but Western countries had been losing their jobs for years already (as anyone knows who buys plimsolls in the supermarket and reads the label.)
1991	Lucky said that links have started a trend toward using ‘offshore word processing’ based in the Caribbean, where labour costs are less.
1991	Very soon, Dertouzos said, General Motors plants will communicate with each other by .
1991	Within a decade General Motors will communicate with US Steel's .
1991	The ‘culture’ will aggravate the gap between West and East, where will be used to increase centralisation and control over individuals.
1991	will reduce our energy needs, according to Dertouzos.
1991	They will also reduce our needs for mental energy, and the 21st century's cognoscenti will take up mental jogging, using programs specially designed to exercise the mind…until then we'll have to keep attending conferences on culture.
1991	The cerebellum is located at the top of the brainstem below the cerebrum, and works as a sort of administrative regulating the rate, sequence and force of motor movements.
1991	THE industry in Japan is trying to solve its problems over producing software by fixing up deals overseas.
1991	Companies in Japan have arranged contracts in which people from China, Taiwan and South Korea write programs for Japanese .
1991	Under a plan by the Japanese Software Industry Association, Chinese students will work on programs for Japanese manufacturers.
1991	Fujitsu has started negotiations on a joint venture with the Chinese Science Commission of Tianjin for the development of a system for the Chinese language.
1991	In another move, Applications Corporation, a leading Japanese software house, has started a joint venture with a Taiwanese firm called Systex.
1991	According to one estimate, the country could be short of as many as 180 000 specialists by 1985.
1991	The business in Japan is unusual in that most software writing is done by people who use , as opposed to the manufacturers of the machines.
1991	owners in Japan do not favour the trend in the West of designing general-purpose software packages.
1991	A company that operates in Japan must employ its own software organisation with high fixed labour costs.
1991	Also if the people who will later run the are also responsible for the software, then they are more likely to fit the programming to their own needs, which can save time and money later.
1991	In Japan, users create some 87 per cent of their applications programmes.
1991	Another 7 per cent is contracted with independent software house, and makers provide the remaining 6 per cent.
1991	The software subsidiaries of a large users are among the 40 large data-processing firms in Japan.
1991	They include Mitsui Knowledge Industry, Sumisho Service and MSK Systems — subsidiaries of the Mitsui, Sumitomo and Mitsubishi general trading companies.
1991	Nomura Systems, which is owned by the largest Japanese securities house, ranks third among the largest information service companies.
1991	The hardware manufacturers themselves offer not only systems software, which comprises the most basic sets of instructions that make operate and with which users are normally powerless to interfere.
1991	NEC is the third biggest manufacturer in Japan after Fujitsu and IBM Japan.
1991	Among the leading firms, Fujitsu and Hitachi have followed the course of making machines that are ‘plug compatible’ with those of IBM, the world's biggest company.
1991	It maintains its own centre and since last July has incorporated Fujitsu's time-sharing division.
1991	Although Hitachi has been overtaken in the domestic market by NEC, it was not from lack of commitment to software development.
1991	Third World turns to
1991	can ease the financial problems of countries in the economically troubled Third World.
1991	UNIDO's specialists in Vienna have written the programs, sold under the name COMFAR.
1991	The programs will run on an $8000 Apple III .
1991	In minutes, the will produce 18 columns of net and discounted cash flows presented over a set period of time.
1991	A system introduced by Japan's Ministry of Health has cut the time taken to match a kidney donor with the most suitable recipient from several hours to three minutes.
1991	The system's central at the National Hospital in Sakura City connects seven centres in towns throughout Japan.
1991	About 2500 of these are registered in the , which stores relevant data on their blood and tissue types.
1991	In the new system, after a registered kidney donor has died, the hospital to which he or she has been taken contacts the nearest centre.
1991	Three minutes later, the prints out a list of 60 names of suitable recipients, together with their relevant data.
1991	An automatic would come up with one ‘best’ answer.
1991	Other sorts of seemingly intelligent behavioural variability, though, cannot be accounted for either by ‘noise’ in the or by habituation.
1991	Early in 1983, a consensus seemed to be emerging among theorists using models of the atmosphere that this material, now spreading across the northern hemisphere, would lead to a cooling of perhaps half a degree Centigrade, with the peak effect occurring in the late summer of 1983 or the winter of 1983–84.
1991	If all those []models do work, it will give us a lot more confidence working on all those other problems,’(Science News , 21 August 1982, p 121).
1991	The unstated corollary is that if the models don't predict the impact of El Chichón on climate successfully, it will cast doubt on their accuracy in predicting other climatic changes — such as the ‘greenhouse effect’, the hypothetical warming effect that is due to the build-up of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
1991	The models, fed with cloud data and the assumption that the biggest climatic effect is produced when the cloud of sulphuric acid drop lets is most widespread, all come up with figures in this ball park.
1991	Kelly and Sear cast doubt on the theories underpinning the forecasts, and suggest that the biggest effect of a volcano on the weather occurs when there is still a lot of dust in the veil and the sulphuric acid droplets have also started to build up.
1991	As yet, Kelly and Sear have not formally published their calculations, which are hot off the Norwich .
1991	‘The errors are coming in the models,’, he said.
1991	The modellers forecast a cold period ahead, with a dip in northern-hemisphere temperatures reaching 0.5°C late this year or early in 1984.
1991	For example, information on semiconductor production equipment goes to Minsk (the home of the Russian industry, while information on nuclear physics (incidentally, never in much demand) is sent to the Volga Nuclear Physics Centre at Dubna.
1991	The cost of complacency
1991	Finally, imagine that the designs and products of the practising engineer are so unpredictable, so prone to delay, error and collapse, that the remark ‘Sorry sir, it was a programming error’ is taken as an adequate excuse for almost any misfortune, from an inflated tax claim to a delayed spacecraft or the near-triggering of a nuclear war.
1991	I am describing only the current reality: the state of the art of software engineering — the art of programming the raw hardware of our increasingly cheap and reliable to meet the needs and aspirations of their users.
1991	The mismatch between promise and performance in programming was first publicly recognised by professionals in the field at a famous conference on software engineering in 1968.
1991	The past decade has seen immense progress in elucidating the scientific basis for a proper discipline of programming: it is now possible to prove that a program meets its specification, in much the same way that mathematicians and engineers know how to prove the correctness of a proposed solution to the relevant differential equations.
1991	It contains sound practical advice not only for programmers, but also for the users of their products, and for educators in secondary school and universities.
1991	In many developed countries, politicians have at last realised the promise offered by the magnificent achievements of hardware engineers.
1991	Some interesting issues that need a far wider airing are also raised — the close relationship between the development of electronics and and the needs of the military, for example.
1991	Mr Leach is, in fact, attached by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to the hydraulics section of the UKAEA, Winfrith, to help in adapting codes concerned with safety issues.
1991	The that sets the type for this page altered ‘privileged’ to ‘privileged ’last week.
1991	This would be detected by loops buried in the road at what are called key junctions and the data passed on to a which would issue the bills later.
1991	Police to form national network
1991	EIGHT police forces in Britain have plans to link their computerised criminal files (which hold both criminals and suspects) to the Police National (PNC) in London.
1991	These first steps towards a national network of police are going ahead even though many senior policemen are concerned with the lack of a national policy on police .
1991	In evidence given in 1978 to the Lindop committee on data protection, the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) said that the police's intelligence should not be linked up without the approval of parliament or the Home Secretary.
1991	Yet the Home Office has said that specific approval for the functions of police is not required from them.
1991	He said that, in the absence of a national policy, there is no-one in national control of police policy on the use of .
1991	The issue of police use of is extremely sensitive.
1991	The fear is that a nationwide network of police could swap unsubstantiated gossip and suspicion about individuals.
1991	The Home Office has set up a committee to examine codes of practice for police .
1991	Since the beginning of last year, police officers in Suffolk have been able to use their terminals to plug into both their own ‘criminal information’ files, containing facts and suspicions, and to national records held on the PNC.
1991	‘This allows us to keep a check on who is moving around in the middle of the night,’ said Sergeant John Bishop who heads the operation.
1991	There are no plans, he said, to link the micro with other , such as the Suffolk criminal information system.
1991	One is the Merseyside force which already has a link from the PNC to its £2 million command and control .
1991	Now it wants to link up its planned criminal information , whose approval is still needed from the local police committee.
1991	This makes possible ‘complex speculative searches of a database of local people.’
1991	One Scottish force, Lothian and Borders, is planning a similar link with its new criminal information .
1991	This will include information gathered by area constables whose job is to: ‘secure the service of at least one observer in every street, not a paid professional informant, but someone who knows the inhabitants and is inquisitive enough to find out what is going on and will pass on information.’
1991	Thatcher vetoes scheme
1991	MARGARET THATCHER is personally behind the delay in implementing a massive government-backed programme of research.
1991	They call for a five-year programme to knit together the nation's best brains in , with the taxpayer contributing two thirds of the total bill of £350 million.
1991	And 10 American companies recently took advantage of a more lenient approach to anti-trust policy in the US to form a jointly run Microelectronics and Technology Corporation.
1991	The French government, which is overseeing the experiments and contributing part of the cost, will decide this year on which system it will base its national network for electronic cash, which companies have inevitably dubbed monetique ’.
1991	The experiment in St Etienne is the first to link terminals in shops, in real time, with the banks' .
1991	The terminal checks with the bank's that the number corresponds with the card, and that the customer has not spent over the limit of £200 that day.
1991	Droughts in South Africa (see box), changes in the southern oscillation, El Nino and other facets of the circulation in the southern hemisphere are surely interlinked, but the complexity of the energy exchange between the ocean and the atmosphere is such that models cannot yet provide reliable forecasts of changes in phenomena such as the southern oscillation.
1991	ACORN , the maker of the BBC Microcomputer, last week announced it was replacing 3600 defective tape recorders sent out under the Department of Industry's scheme to provide schools with half-price .
1991	If users pressed the ‘play’ or ‘rewind’controls while a program was being loaded from the tape recorder into the 's memory, a small voltage went across the erase head, leaving a blip on the tape.
1991	There has been trouble with its chips, delays in providing disc-drives for the and a lack of software to run on it.
1991	Some teachers have questioned the wisdom of supplying tape machines at all for the .
1991	scientists and entrepreneurs are worried that delays by the British government in responding to the Alvey report on advanced information technology may be harming Britain's chances of joining an elite of computerised nations lining up for the 1990s.
1991	The report called for £200 million of government spending on fifth generation computing, that is that can think for themselves and get along with humans.
1991	Cheap and accessible packages have unburdened the splitters of much donkey work; the can take over the job of interpretation too.
1991	As a natural ecosystem the bay is astonishingly complex: its waters, some fresh and some saline, some warm and some cold, mix to provide an ephemeral backdrop whose characterisation would challenge the most sophisticated .
1991	The patented plan is to feed data about the relevant airports into a small on the flight deck before take-off.
1991	During the subsequent flight, the puts out a series of warning signals which tell the pilot when he can make noise, and when he can safely cut the engine power.
1991	Some inventions have to be protected by copyright rather than patents.
1991	This is the name of a language that an American firm called Microdata developed to speed up the business of interrogating a database.
1991	The company has already sold the on which the language can be run to several forces including Devon and Cornwall, West Yorkshire and North Humberside.
1991	If the does not understand what you have said it will ask questions, offer alternatives or tell you to rephrase your question and try again.
1991	The Artificial Intelligence Language uses pattern recognition, a technique used in that can hear or see, to decide what question is being asked.
1991	The also parses the sentence, deciding which words are verbs, nouns, adverbs and so on.
1991	Much of what is typed in is discarded, because the is really looking for key words which refer to files kept in its disc store and what should be done to them.
1991	The pattern recognition technique enables the to cope with a certain amount of operator error, minor misspellings make no difference.
1991	At the moment the tends to think out loud.
1991	And what would be the reaction of the average police officer to this response from the : ‘Gosh…
1991	SCIENTISTS at Kyoto University, Japan, have built a prototype optical transistor which could form the basis of that will run on laser beams instead of electric signals.
1991	Professor Akio Sasaki and Assistant Professor Shigeo Fujita claim that their ‘multifunctional optical element device’ can amplify light signals, store them in the same way as a conventional stores electric signals, and channel the flow of rays in one direction by absorbing random reflected light.
1991	Japanese firms such as Fujitsu, Hitachi and Nippon Electric (NEC), which are competing with Us firms to build the world's fastest ‘supercomputer’ have also expressed interest in using the idea to develop an optical processing technology .
1991	In recent weeks, two teams of researchers making the to do this job have signed agreements with companies to market their work.
1991	With its enhanced ability, the should speed up the operation of British Robotic Systems's main product, the Viking vision unit.
1991	It can act as an inspection tool, for instance to determine whether the design of postage stamps is correct; alternatively, the can feed instructions about the shape of objects to a robot in enough time for the machine to pick it up.
1991	Alternatively, the could form a part of other automation systems that the firm sells.
1991	The second link between the worlds of commerce and research effectively ends probably the British community's longest running saga.
1991	A small firm in Horsham called Stonefield Omicron Electronics has agreed to sell the fourth version of the , the CLIP.4.
1991	poly
1991	STUDENTS on a part-time MSc course to start next year at Kingston Polytechnic will get their own microcomputers so that they can work away from the polytechnic's classrooms.
1991	Angled at business applications of information technology, the course covers such relatively novel ideas as office automation, the human aspects of computing, aided design and the use of to aid in management decision making.
1991	‘We are moving away from conventional engineering and concentrating on how to get improved productivity from ,’ said Reg Key, director of ICL's consultancy and training division.
1991	Interest in the UK began in the early 1960s when firms began to experiment with interactive graphics using mainframe .
1991	One American market research firm reckons that the graphics industry will grow at a compound rate of 41–6 per cent until it tops $17 billion in 1987.
1991	The trend in CAD is away from‘number crunching’ systems that use a lot of memory.
1991	Between the extremes are solid modellers that treat an image as if it were solid — a kind of ‘clay model’ in a .
1991	A basic system consists of a monitor screen, a programmed , means to change the screen image, and a printer to make copies of drawing and figures.
1991	An example of a digitizer might be a probe that will let the ‘read’ a shape or colour.
1991	Mechanical Engineering News — the newspaper of the IMEE — complained in January: ‘It is obvious that few engineers understand the terminology and jargon that is prevalent in editorial copy and advertisements for systems.
1991	Establishing common data gives the stylists, managers and engineers an unexpected surprise: the opportunity to start aided manufacture (CAM), usually via numerical control (NC) machine programs.
1991	The firm now has a that uses a touch of ‘consistent compromise’ to do the job.
1991	This machine gives the digital information about the last's freeform surface.
1991	A pointer is touched against each point of intersection on the grid and the digitizer records the position in the .
1991	When the digitizing is complete the displays a wire-frame model — hundreds of rectangular planes joined together in a last-like shape.
1991	When the basic style is agreed, the draws a two-dimensional pattern of it complete with stress points marked.
1991	It is simple to drop unsuccessful ideas because the retains the last's shape and specific designs made on it.
1991	The last is a parametric model.
1991	Draughting machines build up information about components in the memory.
1991	Lines defining any surface hidden by any other surface are removed by the .
1991	The does this by drawing a coloured and/or textured surface on a defined area.
1991	It displays an unambiguous and realisable image — the 's version of a designer's mock-up.
1991	Without quantum theory there would be no genetic engineering, no solid-state , no nuclear power stations (or bombs); even Albert Einstein's Nobel prize was for his pioneering contributions to quantum theory, not for his ideas on relativity.
1991	Suspects bulge the immigrants'
1991	The existence of the was first revealed last month in New Scientist (10 February, P 351).
1991	The was installed in August 1981.
1991	Liberal peer, Lord Avebury, pressed the government last week for further information about the .
1991	He went on: ‘Before any particulars are entered on the , they are carefully checked with a view to ensuring that they are accurate and, where information has been received from individuals, that it has not been furnished maliciously’.
1991	Apple , the Cinderella company that has risen from the backyard to a worldwide name in six years, is going to give a to every public and private school in the state — that's about 10 000 with a retail value of almost $20 million.
1991	The will be in the schools for the start of the 1983–84 school year.
1991	All told, it will more than double the number of in Californian schools.
1991	The grand plan, according to Apple, is to help make the state's youngsters ‘literate’.
1991	But will the flood of be of much use?
1991	Sandy Wagner, coordinator of curriculum in Santa Clara County, says aren't much help without trained teachers.
1991	Manufacturers don't want to suffer the same fate as educational TV — a lot of promise but precious little worthwhile application.
1991	The companies are likely to provide basic instruction on how to use the .
1991	In January it opened 15 centres which will up-date teachers' skills in maths, science and education.
1991	There are plans to enlist students who can already handle — about 50 per cent of California's high schools and 20 per cent of its elementary schools already have .
1991	But some schools just don't know what to do with the .
1991	Daro says there is a tendency to misuse , with too much emphasis on drill and practice.
1991	Under the legislation, manufacturers can claim a credit of 25 per cent of the market value for each they give away to schools.
1991	Apple wanted to donate a to every school in the country — more than 100 000 machines.
1991	The massive giveaway is the most grandiose sign to date of the increasing involvement of the state's high-tech industry with education.
1991	Atari wants to link home to school via telephone lines.
1991	But Hewlett-Packard is sceptical that the strategy of one per school will work.
1991	‘How can you teach a class on one ?’
1991	Last week Hewlett-Packard announced that 14 Californian schools — six of them in Silicon Valley — would each receive 10 with video monitors and printers, 12 disc drives, two graphics plotters and a selection of educational software.
1991	Why Britain is well-schooled in
1991	BRITAIN has stolen a march on the US in one of the most important aspects of information technology — getting into schools.
1991	The Department of Industry's £4 million scheme to put a microcomputer into every secondary school in Britain has closed with 6400 distributed.
1991	Only 600 schools did not take up the offer of half-price .
1991	So far a quarter of Britain's 27 000 schools for the under-11s have taken up the offer of cut-price and training material.
1991	The two on offer from the DoI for secondary schools were the BBC Acorn microcomputer and Research Machines 380Z.
1991	Primary schools are being offered the Acorn, a smaller version of the Research Machines and the Sinclair Spectrum.
1991	So far the department has sent 7000 teachers on courses and reckons to train 50 000 teachers by the end of this year.
1991	The DES has nevertheless been criticised for not giving enough training to teachers and for not providing adequate programs for the classroom.
1991	The Inner London Education Authority, in a circular to schools, says that the on offer to primary schools are ‘in many respects inadequate’.
1991	spies give thanks to Personal
1991	THE NEW generation of personal that plug into company computer-networks are proving a boon to spies.
1991	So concluded a gathering of international experts on security that met in Cannes last week.
1991	The increased use of personal means that files of secret information may be left lying around on a cassette or floppy disc in unlocked offices or at the homes of executives.
1991	Industrial spies may even be able to plug their own personal into confidential data-networks.
1991	On top of this the micro-revolution is bringing a massive rise in literacy.
1991	Many more people can become spies.
1991	Leslie Goldberg, a consultant spoke of civil servants in the US Defense Department who took their own personal into the office ‘because it was easier to use them than the department's system.’
1991	‘It's too late to do much about it except to make sure you always lock up your personal .’
1991	With techniques, a researcher can analyse the image to look for changes in geology.
1991	Project Universe is a £5 million scheme involving the Orbital Test Satellite (OTS) which will eventually link some 150 attached to local area networks at seven research centres in Britain.
1991	Apart from data, Project Universe can also carry telephone conversations, slow-scan TV pictures and facsimile transmissions.
1991	The network will study how to manage a large collection of , which are constantly being switched in and out of the Universe network.
1991	One research team keeps a record of which are attached to the network at any time.
1991	A central tells them where to go, calculating the shortest routes and making sure they don't crash into each other as they beetle along at a brisk 5 to 6 kilometres per hour.
1991	The also takes care of other jobs, such as channelling one programme to several booths simultaneously, or providing data on current system usage and tape popularity.
1991	For example, and engineer trained in remote-sensing techniques in the West would be unable to use his knowledge if his own country lacks the equipment to make sense of the data.
1991	So the countries of black Africa have to rely on data sent in tapes from the US or from Europe.
1991	One of the four diesel generators that would power its controls in the event of a blackout was also out of service and the reactor was threatened with shut-down.
1991	Virtually every stage in the firing and aiming process would be supervised by backed up by satellite links to the White House.
1991	In fact with the cruise missiles, keys do not exist: launch crews give the command to fire with a keyboard in a mobile control centre.
1991	The missiles can be fired only if the operator types into his control a six-digit code, called a ‘permissive action link’.
1991	Rather like a bank's cash-dispensing machine, the launch-control will keep the missiles' warheads switched off if somebody types in the wrong combination.
1991	The weapon's thus knows where it is at all times, without relying on any signals from outside.
1991	TERCOM has a memory which stores up to 20 detailed maps covering small sections of the course that the missile is flying.
1991	save laboratory animals
1991	are replacing animals in experiments by students at a teaching hospital in Texas.The — an Apple 11 Plus — replicates physiological functions which students normally observe in experimental animals.
1991	The animal's physiological functions are converted to a series of mathematical equations, which are entered into the as a program.
1991	The continues to solve the equations, providing a complete series of new values each time an individual value is changed.
1991	The greatest number of animal experiments that the are taking over are in cardiovascular studies, including one involving shock.
1991	Dr James Walker, assistant director of the laboratory , estimates that the four will pay for themselves in two years because they reduce the high cost of buying, housing and feeding experimental animals.
1991	also save time.
1991	The time to do experiments is also cut; the compresses into a matter of minutes reaction times that could take hours in animals.
1991	Walker says that although the animals were fully anaesthetised, some students believed they were suffering ‘Of course, there is no similar emotional reaction when the takes the place of the animal.’
1991	In recent weeks, the 14 regional centres of the Microcomputers in Education Programme (MEP) have received a batch of teletext adaptors from Acorn of Cambridge.
1991	Schools that have bought approved by the DoI but made by other firms, for instance Sinclair or Research Machines, cannot buy adaptors.
1991	A service based on Prestel would be available to all schools, no matter what they had chosen, and many teachers are keen to adapt Prestel, despite its limitations, to a wider use in schools.
1991	call-up
1991	WHEN engineers working for the Tokyo gas company, get a telephone call in the middle of the night, the chances are that a will be at the other end.
1991	The company this month recruited a and voice-recognition chips to mobilise workers when an emergency occurs at night or during a holiday.
1991	When the engineers are needed, all the duty staff have to do is call the through an office terminal, and enter the type of emergency.
1991	The goes through its list of 7000 engineers and site workers, classified into five groups depending on location and qualifications, and decides how many to call.
1991	Each employee has a code word, which the 's voice recognition chip checks.
1991	And if the wrong person answers, or the engineer cannot give the code word, the apologises for the disturbance and hangs up.
1979	The first of these was the intense interest in, and massive support for, subject-based curriculum change particularly in Mathematics and Science which originated in the late nineteen-fifties in the United States, largely as a result of a realisation of the enormous gaps which were opening between what  university research workers were examining and what schools taught, between the demands of a based technology and the realities of a curriculum designed in the nineteenth century to serve a nation of shopkeepers.
1979	One relatively manageable task would be to use the currently employed to sort out lists and marks for item analyses of marks scored in individual questions, thus building up a profile of strengths and weaknesses in the subject analysed.
1992	The two Ians volunteered to be drivers for the two-week journey and they are also joined by a builder, a pastor, photographer and a expert.
1992	Young David Freeman (Joey Cramer) finds himself torn between his family — who have become like strangers — and Max, an increasingly humanised spaceship who seems to be his only friend in a changed world on this science fiction fantasy adventure directed by Randal Kleiser.
1992	NETWORK AT LIBRARIES
1992	HAMPSHIRE Training and Enterprise Council have relaunched a counter-wide network to help businesses and individuals tap into thousands of training opportunities.
1992	TAP (Training Access Points) systems of user-friendly terminals located in libraries, shopping centres, careers offices and businesses — has been taken over by the TEC and is the focal point of a marketing campaign to extend career opportunities.
1990	COMPANY CAR drivers who thrash their vehicles are being targeted by lease companies using sophisticated systems.
1990	In fact, Berger completed the slowing down lap, which indicated a pessimistic and justified his theory that, had Schumacher got really close in the final laps, he would have gone flat out and to hell with the consequences.
1990	The synthesised audible warning harks back to the 25, but the controlled, MacPherson strut-based self-levelling air suspension is much more ‘cutting edge’ for Renault.
1990	A trip , capable of calculating instantaneous and average fuel consumptions, is fitted as standard.
1990	A low position (15mm below normal height) is selected by the above 75mph to improve aerodynamic behaviour.
1990	Working in conjunction with the dampers and controlled by the same are four air springs, which constantly adjust the ride height according to a number of external factors.
1990	The automatically lowers the body by 15mm above 75mph for improved stability and returns to its usual setting below 50mph.
1990	Trip is slightly optimistic
1991	system users cannot control risk management decisions, but suffer big losses when inadequate protection fails to avert catastrophe.
1991	British electronics manufacturers are the most acquisitive in Europe, a fact borne out by last month's £230 million purchase by ICL of Finnish company Nokia Data.
1991	Since the new boxes could be locked quickly into its and management system, operating costs would rise only by about 20 per cent.
1991	When the responses to almost 20,000 questions had been put through VGA's , they revealed that men and women executives have more talents in common than most people imagine — and some considerable managerial differences too.
1991	Business fed the results from its chosen group into a and stacked the combined scores in 30 categories: women's highest at the top, the lowest at the bottom, followed in each case by similar scores for the men.
1991	Yet cuts in the services sector mean that, for now, it can do little more than mark time.
1991	‘Some businesses that planned to shelve their old systems have stuck with them instead,’ he says.
1991	Moreover, according to a report by consultancy Price Waterhouse, in 1990 finance and retail companies slowed spending more than firms in any other sector; the vast majority of Softwright's business comes from these two areas, and long-established clients account for two-thirds of its turnover.
1991	This year, they see other M4-corridor companies, such as giant Digital Equipment and Philips, laying off staff.
1991	As she talks, the screen behind her bleeps regularly as pieces of electronic mail arrive; she gets up to 40 messages a day.
1991	Sue Moss, a founder director, says that when it comes to supplying staff with , ‘the software writers get the gleaming new equipment, and the managers — who don't need amazing processors — get the old stuff’.
1991	We don't send out statements following the invoice, but keep talking to clients; someone does this full time.
1991	It works because companies would sooner pay a nice person they know than a .
1991	Lutz Gattnar was in charge of projects at the 7 Oktober combine until the revolution.
1991	Tyne Thames Technology (T3) was set up in early 1989 with funding from company North Tyneside Brass Tacks, BITC's city action team and the Telethon Trust, and a secondee from Northumbria Water, to develop home- and remote-working opportunities for people confined to the house.
1992	this is not to suggest that I function like a (which would be anathema to me), for there is always something to react to, something new to learn, or to improve.
1991	These collars give pigs a key to let them in and out of stalls where they can feed unmolested.
1986	Subsequent curriculum development has simultaneously reflected and led the professional work of the Division: in both full- and part-time courses, emphasis has been placed upon such areas as cost-in-use and design and management studies, by way of work activities, and applications and energy analysis as forward indicators.
1986	They are, of course, interrelated; use of in calculation, word processing and computer-aided design, for example , can put strains on office space, and as accommodation is one of the least flexible resources, there must be careful consideration and if necessary appropriate investment made ahead of time.
1986	When considering investment in equipment, particularly major items such as , it will be necessary to weigh up carefully the cost and value of the equipment and also its anticipated rate of obsolescence.
1986	Financial control, aided by accountants, partnership secretaries and , is of paramount importance.
1986	Shop around for the system which will best suit the practice concerned rather than accept the most readily available (such as the packages which the salesman will be keen to sell with the machine).
1986	The installation of a system is an excellent opportunity to sweep away prejudice and introduce a more professional approach: good time recording systems, on micro-computer, for example, are often part of a suite of packages linking output to the input needs of the job-costing system.
1986	This carefully won information is often overlooked; and, again, systems offer tremendous scope for retrieving essential data on earlier jobs to assist in quoting for new ones.
1986	THE — THE WHITE KNIGHT?
1986	The power that even the smallest practice can now afford means that there is no excuse for the well-organised firm not to be making use of this opportunity not only for operating efficiency but also as a tool of competition.
1986	These systems are ‘user friendly’(much used on home and hobby ); and a forecasting model, once built and tested, will produce consistently accurate results: a claim that few accountants could make!
1986	It would be a brave man who would claim that these ideas were unrealistic given the availability of cheap power.
1986	The evolution of huge but cheap storage capacities in , accessible instantaneously, could and probably will revolutionise both the professional work and financial management methods of surveying firms in the years to come.
1986	should a be used — if so should packages be purchased or bespoke systems be commissioned?
1991	To participate, send the child's name, address, age and preferred language to ACA Inc, 85780 Cinderbed Rd, Suite 1900, POB 1190, Newington, Virginia 22122–1190, USA, and they will use their database to find a match.
1992	In the UK, GaAs-based chips are now being marketed, and UK manufacturers are stepping up production of GaAs materials.
1992	Scientists were aware of gallium's potential as a semiconductor 30 years ago but come the revolution it remained largely ignored.
1992	A generated image of the molecule (S) -N N-di-methyl-2(1-phenylethyl benzamido) malonamide used for exploring the structural constraints in the folding of proteins.
1992	The speed and efficiency of GaAs based will enable chemists and mathematicians to produce even more complex images like this and make important predictions about the properties of multi-atom systems.
1992	But designers are still divided over GaAs's tactical value in world of digital .
1992	It is clear that designers need the chemists' understanding of the physical and chemical properties of silicon and the III-Vs and the rules under which they seem to operate at the atomic and molecular levels.
1992	Sales executive Pim Meaning said there no plans to move gallium capability into the digital market.
1992	However, Convex Corporation, which turned to gallium chips for its C3800 supercomputer, believes its faith and investment will be rewarded.
1992	Since its launch last May Convex has received 25 firm orders for the C3800, which is the first to use GaAs instead of silicon chips.
1992	The Heidolph RZR 2103 electronic stirrer has an analogue interface for control and has indicators for both speed and viscosity.
1992	guard .
1992	Intek has announced the latest Armagard unit for Tandon, Compaq, DEC and other large footprint .
1992	It will protect used in harsh environments against dust, oil, water, rough handling, vibration and tampering.
1992	methods in UV, visible and IR spectroscopy
1992	The topics covered include identifying materials from infrared spectra, data manipulation, methods in quantitative analysis, and user written software.
1992	What one understands to be the use of in spectroscopy is very much a matter of personal prejudice, and care must be taken to avoid being misled by a general title such as this.
1992	Some chapters contain helpful bibliographies, and, although the book may be a useful introduction to methods in spectroscopy, anyone seriously contemplating work in these areas would probably benefit more from consulting the original papers.
1992	The money will be put towards the purchase of personal for running chemistry software applications.
1989	Many books invite us to explore a subject (insects, knights in armour, acid rain) or to engage in some activity like playing hockey or using a .
1989	In specific areas such as space exploration, science, and popular music, an author can expect many young readers to have a considerable (not to say a remarkable) amount of existing knowledge.
1989	Some play-school and school activities are planned in this way, and many games require an intimate knowledge of The hobbit or some other well-known story.
1989	The school or public library can cater for confident children by providing a wide range of books and related materials — pictures, videos, music and spoken-word cassettes, software, etc. — so arranged and displayed that the young users are not overwhelmed.
1989	(Automation, systems, and so on, should not have been introduced to reduce the number of staff but to free qualified staff to work directly with the library users.)
1989	Do the opportunities provided by graphics also present problems to the young viewer unfamiliar, perhaps, with an unusual viewpoint or rapid change of viewpoint?
1990	Sixteen men were left in the 100 metres, already sorted by into two semi-finals; eight would progress to the final.
1991	The people who had put her in such a tizzy were a solicitor, a analyst and someone in advertising.
1991	When Dennis summoned us to table, I ended up with Karen on one side of me and the analyst's wife on the other.
1991	They and the Carters were to have shared it that year with the analyst and his wife, but one of this couple's children was involved in an accident and they had to cancel at the last minute.
1990	A huge office, full of screens and flashing lights.
1990	I flew down and looked at the screens to see what was written on them, and they all said in huge letters…
1990	And the screens all screamed, ‘IT'S YOU!’
1990	print-outs so big and heavy they'd wrenched the bin off its lamp-post.
1990	That's what they want me to be — some crummy clerk with painted fingernails number-crunching on a all day.
1991	The County Sites and Monuments Records, now likely to be on , give details of all archaeological sites.
1991	For the first time, a was used in the analysis.
1991	Alignments between these points were found by .
1991	The results of the run using the real sites showed a five-point alignment, which would be expected by chance only once in 250 runs.
1991	This astrology did not reside with ephemerides or in programs, but in personal daily knowledge of the movement of heavenly bodies through the sky: thus they were able to make the connections.
1991	In the early 1960s, American Professor of Astronomy, Gerald Hawkins, analysed the positions of the stones at Stonehenge by and calculated the extreme rising and setting positions of sun and moon in 1500BC.
1991	Using terminology, sensory perception and motor activity are thus only pattern-matching exercises between the inner mind structure and the outward physical body.
1991	So learning that a particular symbol on a keyboard, situated in a particular room, delivers a banana from a feeder, is really the same kind of mental activity as recognizing the shape of a banana plant in a forest and remembering where to find it againthe next day.
1991	Sherman and Austin were two chimpanzees who had been trained to use a keyboard in which the keys carried lexigrams (geometric patterns) which related to items (e.g. JUICE, SWEET POTATO) or simple activities (e.g. GIVE, GET, CHASE).
1989	The names and addresses of every volunteer had to be entered on to our .
1986	These may include ability to learn easily, familiarity with new technology such as , no demanding family ties, willingness to travel, willingness to work, plenty of energy.
1989	and Privacy
1989	This means that at any frontier anywhere in the world a border official who has at his disposal a piece of equipment which is already widely and internationally available will be able instantaneously to record the personal details from a passport without the holder realising it, and the record will be automatically read into and stored by a .
1989	This is only the latest in a series of issues which have emerged as technology has developed and linked up with telecommunications, and which appear to bear upon fundamental questions of individual freedom.
1989	Networks of communicating systems, within and across frontiers, are growing all the time in the private and public sectors.
1989	Already in Britain there are plans for putting into communication the computer-based personal information systems of DHSS, the Driving and Vehicle Licensing Centre, the Police National and the Inland Revenue; and the embossed plastic cards with unique machine-readable numerical identifiers which are now issued automatically to all school-leavers to mark their entry into the National Insurance scheme will in a few years' time be, in effect, national identity cards.
1989	As long ago as 1975 a Home Office White Paper ‘and Privacy’ said, unambiguously, that ‘the time has come when those who use to handle personal information, however responsible they are, can no longer remain the sole judges of whether their own systems adequately safeguard privacy’, and it set out clearly the special features of computerised information systems which had implications for privacy.
1989	The speed of , their capacity to store, combine, retrieve and transfer data, their flexibility and the low unit cost of the work they do, all facilitate the establishment and maintenance of ever more extensive record systems, retaining more and more data, which is easily and quickly accessible from many distant points.
1989	This data can quickly be transferred from one information system to another and can be combined and transformed in ways which might not otherwise be practicable; furthermore, data held on is invisible and not directly intelligible so that people have more difficulty in knowing what is in the records or what is happening to them.
1989	Throughout the 1960s, as technology, especially technology, developed, pressure built up in Parliament for legislative controls.
1989	Under the second category they considered investigations by private detectives, industrial espionage, technical surveillance devices, and finally .
1989	This was increasingly felt as an irksome and illogical limitation as the work of the Committee progressed, and prompted a somewhat disingenuous argument in its Report that in the long run the distinction would lose significance, because would sweep the board, and there would be no manual records anyway — an improbable outcome.
1989	The usual legal connotations of ownership are therefore irrelevant, but the possession of information, or the ability to control it, may nevertheless be of great significance; in an entirely trivial sense the paper or tape on which information is recorded can be owned, and while this does not confer rights of ownership over the information itself, this distinction may seem empty if what really matters is control of access to and use of information.
1989	Their privacy problems started long before .
1989	The idea that information about identifiable individuals must be handled with care is not new; it does not arise from the use of to process such information, though the rapid development of technology in the 1950s and 1960s brought the issue into sharp relief.
1989	Together with the popular demonology associated in the public mind with these strange monsters called it produced a sudden upsurge of anxiety.
1989	It was in this atmosphere of unease that the Younger Committee reported; about it had to say that, restricted as it was to investigating private sector applications, it had no evidence of abuse, but that there was a possibility and apprehension of abuse in the future.
1989	And although the Act is all about computerised data banks, the word is not mentioned in the principles.
1989	This sounds simple enough, yet it does mean that the data subject (to whom the information relates) and the data user (who puts it into a ) should each see the handling of the data in the same way, and this has not always been the case when data have been disclosed to third parties, or have been collected for one ostensible purpose and used for another.
1989	There were attempts at legislation on and privacy through Private Members Bills from 1961 onwards, which the Home Office, as the lead department on the subject, managed to stall successfully until 1970, when it was one of the issues which led to the setting up of the Younger Committee.
1989	When that Committee reported in 1972 there was further delay before a White Paper,and Privacy , was published in 1975; the Data Protection Committee was established in 1976 and reported, recommending legislation, in 1978.
1989	Clearly it viewed suggestions for data protection legislation, especially those which made the inclusion of public sector a central point, with disfavour, and until pressure from Europe proved irresistible it was successful.
1989	Ten years earlier at the time of the Younger Report, it had been possible to compile a rough estimate of the number of installations; all thoughts were then on the powerful centralised main-frame equipment which had dominated the technology till then.
1989	The emphasis was now on the proliferation of high-capacity small-scale capable of greater versatility than the older machines, lending themselves to the formation of networks, and many of them deliberately designed for easy access, so that much of the mystique was being dispelled.
1989	Assuming that eventually ail data users handling personal data on are registered, what has been achieved?
1989	The great motive power behind information technology is ever-diminishing unit costs, so that the application of can be expected to continue to proliferate.
1989	In addition to vigilance we need education in the responsible uses of this new extension of man's powers, otherwise we might be driven to a fruitless Luddite destruction of because they seem able to take on a life of their own.
1991	We found a that had mysteriously been left untouched by the Iraqis (they took anything that they thought might be valuable broke everything else, as a rule).
1991	They allowed us to ‘backup’ material written on the 's in-built word-processing package.
1991	Most of us used the ; we got to a point where you had to book your time.
1991	The part of the study has been my personal research interest, but it has also over the years provided stimulating final-year projects for students in the Engineering Mathematics Department.
1991	I did not have enough knowledge to enable me to make a complete model of the individual player's contribution to the stroke.
1991	Since I therefore had to exclude the neuro-muscular contribution the player makes, I knew that a model would only take us far.
1991	John would have to help me to back up the data with some experimental work.
1991	The model shows how club head speed is generated.
1991	We can also observe through the model the behaviour of the shaft throughout the swing.
1991	Thus the model will go some way towards giving a fundamental understanding of the dynamics of the shaft itself without being able to explain fully the contribution made by the individual player.
1991	My models showed that at the beginning the swing (about 230 ms before impact), the application of wrist torque bends the shaft backwards.
1991	The simulation shows that, given the same input torques, a ‘flexible’ shaft produces a ball speed less than that produced by an equivalent ‘rigid’shaft.
1991	The model shows that a ‘totally rigid’ shaft hits the ball 4% faster and therefore, presumably, further.
1991	Nonetheless the Bristol managed to simulate different effects of varying wrist torques.
1991	The results obtained from the strain gauges and the high speed film confirmed the validity of the model.
1991	The analysis also threw up another interesting question: if shaft flexibility is not dynamically important than why is it apparently so important for golfers?
1991	The model shows that it doesn't matter what short of shaft a golfer uses — from the point of view of obtaining distance.
1991	Finally, more work can be done on refining models of ‘real swings’.
1991	models will have a role to play in making the golf-clubs of the future.
1991	simulation of a golf swing
1989	COMPUTER-DATING AGENCIES These are a version of the friendship bureaux that use a to do the matching.
1986	Management training was mentioned most often by County and Metropolitan libraries, community relations were more likely to be mentioned by London, Metropolitan and Welsh libraries, and and technical training was most in evidence in Inner London.
1986	‘With regard to future developments, I feel there is a need for some more training in new technology, particularly in the field of and perhaps a more systematic approach to training’…
1986	‘Basic courses on ’…
1986	‘— actually touching and using the things’…
1986	‘New technology and — but at basic level for top management who know nothing about it but have to see an authority through a changeover’.
1986	Induction, management, , health and safety, were mentioned by this group as well as need for approval of attendance at courses: ‘Micro-computing courses, attitude training’…
1992	A TBM 700 is a magnificent piece of design, the creation of some fine minds working with powerful .
1991	This is a dream of an entry level : A 25MHz Intel386SX system with full 386 compatibility, plenty of disk space and memory to keep you going now and into the future, everything you need to get started in the newest version of Windows (one of the new ‘standards’ in business computing), and most important of all,the peace of mind and rock-solid warranties afforded by the Dell Customer Satisfaction Charter .
1991	Its small form factor allows two , in close proximity, to double up on the 10BaseT hub.
1991	The Micro Twist II is remote and local mode selectable so that the attached can communicate alone or through the 10BaseT network when you flip a switch.
1991	The Hub Card is powered from the IBM PC/AT bus in your .
1991	The draw power from both the attached and external wall adaptor.
1991	FastPort provides a TCP/IP interface so that Unix can spool directly to the printer.
1991	FastPort provides a TCP/IP interface for the printer so that Unix can spool directly to the printer.
1991	You don't have to be an expert in Accountancy or .
1991	The second is the provision of a ‘To Host’ connection, enabling direct connection of the TG100 to a without a MIDI interface.
1991	It has been thought that aircraft maintenance problems i.e. planning/scheduling activities, aircraft system/equipment failure diagnosis, etc., are too large and complex to be tackled successfully with .
1991	The approaches described above can now be captured in programming using expert systems technology.
1991	Symbolic processing is the manipulation by of information and knowledge represented as symbols, analogous to the way humans reason with the knowledge they possess.
1991	Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a field of Science concerned with developing intelligent programs.
1991	Expert Systems (ESs) are intelligent programs that use knowledge and heuristics to solve complex problems.
1991	They can produce these solutions with the speed, recall and immediate availability that only a can provide.
1991	Expert systems handle data, information and expertise (knowledge + experience)— a revolutionary step for and for the people who use them.
1991	Until now, have improved efficiency by storing and manipulating information faster and more accurately than people.
1991	Modern business would be impossible without , soon it will be impossible without the help of expert systems.
1991	Expert systems are taking one step further, they simulate the reasoning processes of human experts, applying the ‘rules of thumb’ that only experience can provide.
1991	Expert systems have the power and flexibility to bring the expertise of countless human experts to a single person via a simple desktop .
1991	Expert systems can be copied and distributed wherever there is a suitable .
1991	based training (CBT) using real data/information
1991	4th generation: Computerised Maintenance Management System(s) (CMMS) or Aided  Maintenance Systems (CAMS).
1991	Maintenance Management System + Expert System
1991	It is simply an extension of science principles to new levels of sophistication.
1991	ESs often run on the same that run programs written in FORTRAN or BASIC.
1991	The first trial, predating expert systems proper, was an aid known as Aided Fault Finding Equipment (CAFFE).
1991	Since it runs on an expensive AI with an equally expensive tool kit software, some of the PLANIT members funded an extension of the project to translate the IPA into a more readily available and cheaper expert system running on an IBM PC or AT class of machine.
1991	The areas covered included a guide to procurement of hardware and software within the RAF, a help desk to assist with the diagnosis of problems on the large variety of PCs within the Engineering Branch of the RAF and extensions to the use of rule induction techniques in the diagnosis of avionic faults at the MU.
1991	Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of Science that is concerned with making more intelligent and by this process more flexible in the types of problems that they can solve.
1991	ONe of these was the notion of compiling human knowledge as sets of ‘rules’ that could be manipulated and controlled by an ‘inference engine’, the purpose being to combine human type reasoning with the processing speed of the and by doing so to provide output that was similar to that of a human expert.
1991	Many have proved beneficial to areas such as medical diagnosis, geological prospecting and system configuration.
1991	However, the skills required to build such systems were rare and also the required combinations of software and hardware were expensive.
1991	British Airways have been investigating the potential of AI to engineering diagnostics through a Aided Decision & Diagnostics Information System programme (CADDIS).
1991	System control is via a standard keyboard.
1991	However, expert systems technology allows specialists to transfer their expertise to a system providing a means to disseminate expertise in a comprehensive and cost effective manner.
1991	Such systems have the power and flexibility to bring the expertise of many human experts to a single person via a desktop or laptop .
1991	Expert systems can produce solutions with the speed, recall, accuracy and consistency that only a can provide.
1991	However, efficiency can be further improved by integrating expert systems with existing data processing orientated, systems, ie databases, critical path planning, hypermedia, condition monitoring etc.
1991	On-board summation of results from HUMS may be provided but for more detailed analysis of results the data/information needs to be transmitted to a ground station at the aircraft's base.
1991	Intelligent, on-board sensors incorporating inbuilt processing and reasoning ability could further improve on-board reporting and reduce the need for excessive data transmissions to ground systems.
1991	based, critical path planning (CPP) provides confidence that the organisation has carefully considered the requirements and has set itself realistic achievement targets.
1991	Based Training
1991	based training (CBT) incorporating advanced expert systems may be able to ease the maintenance training requirements of the future.
1991	HIs work investigated the techniques of based, critical path planning (CPP) and intelligent task planning and control (ITPC).
1991	Fig. 3 Expert Systems as the ‘Integrating Vehicle’ to Aircraft Operations and Maintenance OPERATIONS PLANNING GATE ASSIGNMENT CREW ROSTERING YIELD MANAGEMENT Maintenance Management Information System Reliability Centred Maintenance Condition Monitoring Preventative Maintenance Breakdown Maintenance Knowledge Based System/Expert System Reservations System
1989	In the IBM case, IBM was considered by the Commission to hold a dominant position (inter alia ) in the supply of two key products for a particular system, and was found to have abused its dominant position by refusing to supply other manufacturers in sufficient time with technical information to permit the interfacing of those other products with IBM equipment, particularly by tying in the supply of IBM software and hardware and by discriminating between users of IBM software.
1989	Equally, SABENA behaved abusively by refusing to admit London European to its reservation system.
1989	As an illustration, the market in the EC is characterised by the presence of many, very large companies, but it is still highly competitive.
1978	I also had high hopes of the Electricity Board, particularly as I had taken to cutting ‘Miss’ off my meter reading cards with scissors and it was one of those cards you aren't allowed to cut or mutilate as it upsets the .
1988	Emil looked at his watch and another crew member arrived and said the in the crew's room downstairs was showing that the special train had just pulled into the station, Gate 6, Track 7, as expected.
1988	They're behind desks in big cities tapping at .’
1984	The area he was entering was guarded by an advanced intruder detection system which included thermal sensors, vibration detectors and infra-red closed circuit television, all integrated into a system.
1984	It would have to have been one hell of a continuous storm, and there is nothing in my readings, satellite scan or print-out, to suggest that.’
1991	The multi-screen and the Sports Recall Data Bank enable you to select your choice of sporting records, then meet the sporting greats, presented in an exciting multi-media display.
1991	She pushed buttons, picked up a telephone, muttered discreetly and then turned back to Jack saying, ‘He's in Abbey Ward.
1991	Just above the milometer was a small screen, and Jack guessed that she would find that pretty disconcerting.
1991	‘This ,’ Mrs Lomax began.
1991	And it will even map-read for you; if you tap in your destination the will work out the best route for you, giving you a read-out on the screen.’
1991	‘Used the route-finder yet, Mum?’ he asked.
1991	‘Let's put the route-finder on,’ he said.
1991	But at least the route-finder seemed simple enough and he had no problems in setting it.
1991	Using the manual again, Jack began to re-programme the .
1991	Jack's glance fell on the tiny screen, which  seemed to be going crazy — flashing up numbers, graphics and a kind of blue fuzz, each image speeding into the next.
1991	The screen was still going crazy in front of them, but after a while it slowed down.
1991	Everything was going full blast, and the went crazy.’
1991	‘They're all going bananas — something to do with the .’
1991	‘Switching on the ,’ he said firmly.
1991	And of course it had been the Worm, clearly displayed in broken-up dots on the screen.
1991	A giant Worm on Monument Hill; a giant Worm somehow feeding off hatred and able to use its power to link up with the Glory's and turn the car into its servant.
1991	‘Just for fun we set the route-finder for home after the cinema.’
1991	All the were cracking up on the factory floor this morning.’
1991	The Proximity of the factory and its seemed to charge the Worm.
1991	‘Giant worms feeding off power?
1991	Then his gaze quickly shifted to the route-finder.
1991	Jack looked at their terrified eyes and then down at the screen.
1991	And with those they were bound to be receptive.’
1991	It has been observed that some people switching from using a typewriter to a personal can gain up to half a stone a year because they no longer have to get up to consult filing cabinets; and the same effects can be observed when people use remote-control television, extension phones, lifts and dishwashers.
1989	Now someone has written a programme for the race and the results are available by teatime.
1992	Bullseye board and games plus videos from Alternative Software!
1992	Roll up, roll up, for all the fun of the fair — the All Formats Fair , that is!
1992	Gasp as you find there's one near you — no other event can match it for geographical diversity.
1992	Entry to an All Formats Fair costs a mere £4.
1992	As the original film revolved around Tom Cruise's driving exploits (as well as the usual ‘heartbreaking’ love story) it seems only logical that a racing game would be the end product of a conversion.
1992	Hutchinson Publishing
1992	While Timothy Dalton's first appearance as Mr Bond was a box-office success, his  replica is a poor Missile Command variant bearing little resemblance to the film — wasting yet another potentially good licence.
1992	One of the all-time top-selling games,Ghostbusters shocked everyone on its arrival.
1992	Activision's second ghostly product didn't quite follow the enormous success of its predecessor, although in game design it's just as mediocre.
1992	The paradise to which you emigrated in D — AAW 1 (81%, Issue 85) was rudely shattered when your electricity was cut off, leaving you with no choice but to find the electricity-board office and pay the bill.
1992	Starting in your room, you can enter separate ‘zones’ at will using a Star Trekstyle transporter (I wonder why it still works with the electricity off?).
1992	'Coz it's a completely different , yer nit.
1992	When I press the space-bar a appears with the following information beneath it:
1992	‘Sitting at a desk in front of your .
1992	Great colourful graphics, very hard (well that's what I think, when it comes to games I'm pretty rubbish), fun.
1992	So before you're about to criticise the Spectrum, ask yourself this question: if I didn't have a and I was trying to look for one and I only had enough money for the Spectrum, what would I do?
1992	•Point taken about the , Joel, but let's be realistic — the Speccy was great in its day, but it's a bit long in the tooth now.
1992	Later the home entered the market and software prices lowered but were still high.
1992	But with the coming of the home , software piracy also appeared.
1992	The C65 was intended to be a low-cost with better technical specifications than, but still compatible with, the C64.
1992	Is there any chance of a Wayne's World game?
1992	The quickly came to the conclusion that, taking the IQ levels on my own planet into consideration, Einstein and Newton ‘couldn't find their bottoms with both hands and a flashlight.’
1992	When I attempted to feed in the information on Wayne Campbell the exploded.
1992	Phil, this is tennis.
1992	No sim could simulate all those tantrums and four-letter words, but short of a disaster,International Tennis should be the snappiest C64 tennis game ever!
1992	Can darts ever make a decent game?
1992	There's nine () skill levels and a great two-player mode, so it's not a game you'll master in minutes.
1992	Not many people know this, but Othello is the only game at which a has beaten the world champion.
1992	In fact, the turnover rate is so high, that only one character from the nine-months-old game is still in the series — and that's Bouncer the dog!
1992	CORISH'S GAMES GUIDE
1992	This book helps on just about any game you care to name on a wide variety of formats.
1992	Trojan Phazer gun opens a whole new phase of entertainment.
1992	Please complete the form below remembering to clearly indicate which product you require along with our reference number if shown or the type of and cassette/disk format you require.
1992	pack taken
1992	A £500 Omega pack was stolen from a display at a software company in Alton's Market Street this week.
1992	‘A double agent can be tripled’— or, presumably by the same token, quadrupled or quintupled — since he doesn't necessarily know where one stage ends and the next begins, particularly in the case of a Russian who has left the pre-Glasnost USSR not for reasons of ideology, but for the chance to work out his physical theories on an up-to-date .
1992	Clinical need is as yet unquantifiable, but in time, by dint of hard thought, hard work and, maybe, with the help of Expert Systems it can surely be made measurable.
1992	BANK'S LINK-UP
1992	The Pharos single market adviser is a programme allowing companies with IBM compatible machines to build up a profile of their business by asking a series of questions.
1992	Designed for smaller and medium-sized businesses and even for business units of multinational corporations as a corporate planning checklist, the system has been tested successfully by many companies, as well as specialists.
1991	The will select the cards and your personal prediction will be read.
1992	The remaining space afforded by the removal of the existing kitchen was used to provide areas for a Room, two Business Studies Areas, Typing and Office Procedures.
1991	No robots or anywhere in the world can imitate the complex functions of your human body.
1989	The Met say the system is fully committed at present, and anyway we've got our own .
1989	‘Are you using the Home Office special , the one named after Sherlock Holmes?'’
1976	A would do better
1976	The human mind is more than a : have dull and exact memories — what went in can come out again, exactly as it went in.
1992	FREE 32 PAGE GREENWELD Summer Catalogue Supplement HOSEPIPE CONTROLLER ELECTRONIC CRICKET CLASS ‘A’ HEADPHONE AMPLIFIER THE No. 1 INDEPENDENT MAGAZINE for ELECTRONICS, TECHNOLOGY and PRODUCTS
1992	The No. 1 Independent Magazine for Electronics, Technology and Projects
1992	The only two working models were at the ‘Ideal Home Exhibition’, and there they were working only from signals generated by a personal .
1992	Because of its compatibility with this standard, it is claimed that Photo CD can be used with virtually any type of adhering to common industry standards.
1992	Much of the software debugging can initially be done on a .
1992	This first requires the code to be downloaded from the out to a dedicated programming unit and transferred into an EPROM or EEPROM, which is then removed and placed into the module under test.
1992	All it was doing was essentially the same operation as that performed by the when it copies data from one location to another.
1992	Why note use a battery-backed SRAM (static random access memory) in place of the EEPROM, plugging it directly onto the bus and treating it as an other RAM in the system?
1992	It was designed for use with a having a spare ROM (or RAM) location and for which read/write control is performed by a single line producing a  write pulse.
1992	It is not suitable for which have separate read and write control lines, such as IBM-compatibles.
1992	The bus directly offers the address, data and control lines required to program an SRAM.
1992	What is not allowed for, though, is the need to isolate all the chip's pins (except ground) from the lines before extracting it.
1992	Its eight data input/output lines are buffered  from the 's data input/output lines by IC5.
1992	The output enable pin of IC5 is controlled by the chip select line  of the .
1992	In conjunction, with the 's read/write line , also controls the SRAM's read/write and output enable lines, WE and OE.
1992	When writing to the SRAM, the 's  and   lines must both be low.
1992	For some it may be possible to omit capacitor C3, resistor R2 and diode D1, taking the  line direct to IC1b.
1992	The values of C3 and R2 were chosen to shorten the  pulse generated by the 's 1MHz system clock to about
1992	The unit is powered direct from the 's 5V power line, which must be capable of supplying at least 80mA.
1992	and may be via ribbon cable or individual wires drawn together into a neat harness secured with cable ties.
1992	The with which the original unit is used has a unused 24-pin ROM socket providing all the necessary pinouts except for the  line.
1992	The  lead was connected to the 's  line on its expansion plug.
1992	If your does not have a suitable spare socket, consult the manual and consider whether it is practical to temporarily remove a RAM or ROM (more likely a RAM) to allow the unit to be plugged in.
1992	Once the unit is plugged in, the does not need to be switched off each time the SRAM is inserted or removed since switch S1 controls all the necessary isolation.
1992	The copying procedure will depend on what facilities you have on the .
1992	It is better to assemble code at another memory location, save to disk, and then copy to the unit.
1992	When system development has been completed and you are happy with the machine code, it should then be down-loaded from the into an E(E)PROM in the normal way via a suitable programmer.
1992	Although it might appears that this unit could be used to copy into EEPROMS, this proved impractical with my own because it is not capable of providing the longer write pulses necessary (typically about 10mS).
1992	Matt has asked particularly for a device which can be interfaced with a so I have searched through my data library in order to find a short-list of suitable devices.
1992	Next month:In next month's Surgery we shall be describing an improved low-battery warning indicator and have a program for designing 555 timer circuits.
1992	The bistable has some important uses in information handling, some of which are to make a circuit latch , to make binary counters and frequency dividers also to store data — that is, to provide memory .
1992	This is very important because it is the basis of memory .
1992	SWITCH MODE POWER SUPPLY We unravel the technology and give full constructional details CCD REVERB UNIT VEHICLE WATCHDOG MAKING YOUR OWN P.C.B.s — 2 THE NO. 1 INDEPENDENT MAGAZINE for ELECTRONICS, TECHNOLOGY and PROJECTS
1992	Animate almost anything with your and this project
1992	They store up to eight fields at a time, and use intelligence to average and interpolate the picture information that is added or subtracted.
1992	This type of control works well with most 8-bit where the keyboard is monitored by input ports, and direct reading of each key (or something close to it) is possible.
1992	It does not seem to work well with some 16 bit as they have quite complex keyboard electronics, and rather indirect means of reading the keys.
1992	I think that I am correct in saying that the two original high level languages were Cobol and Prolog, which were for developing business and general/scientific applications respectively.
1992	New 8088 based have virtually disappeared from the scene, and now 80286 based PCs seem to be going the same way.
1992	They simply have no significant cost advantage over 80386SX .
1992	Even 33MHz 80486 based are becoming affordable.
1992	Now would seem to be a good time to buy PCs, but there could well be a certain amount of hassle before your new wonder is up and running properly.
1992	Next month we will return to general hardware matters, with a look at some simple pieces of hardware to read bar codes.
1992	The unit plugs into the parallel printer port of a PC and takes its supply from the .
1992	It is claimed to be particularly useful for field engineers since it's small size makes it ideal for use with portable .
1992	Information may represent two-way private conversations, radio or television information for mass entertainment, still pictures and printed documents, or binary data being interchanged between .
1992	From Victoriana automata to Star Wars robots, this 8-channel serial port interface will allow you to control their actions through your home .
1992	SOME years ago an enterprising manufacturer of home ‘add-ons’ produced a low cost robot arm that used standard model radio control servos to produce the motive power.
1992	A small machine code programme was tucked away in the and when called upon would produce the necessary signals to drive the servos via the ‘user port’ and an interface box.
1992	This was ideal for those hobbyist and experimenters who derived much fun a pleasure from making their ‘sing and dance’ in the real world.
1992	The only ‘missing link’ is the interface between the and the servos.
1992	The manufacturers of the robot arm have not advertised in the hobby electronics press for a long time and a disadvantage of their interface was that both software and hardware were designed specifically for the BBC .
1992	The BBC Model B was, and probably still is, one of the best equipped home for experimenters and ‘interfacers’.
1992	In order to drive the model servos from the serial port of a a protocol converter is required to translate messages squirted out of the port into pulses that the servos can understand.
1992	This is achieved by the Digital Servo Interface which, for elegance and simplicity, uses a single chip, preprogrammed i.c. (see Fig 3) to both generate the variable pulse width signals for the servos and decode commands from the host .
1992	Most modern will function perfectly well over short cable lengths at these reduced signal levels.
1992	The interface has been tested with the BBC RS423 port, the Cambridge Z88 and both the Amstrad PC 1640 and PPC 512 .
1992	The microcontroller sequentially generates the eight channel output pulses and then raises the CTS (Clear to Send) line high for 4.2mS during which time, data can be sent from the host .
1992	It was noted in the course of development that some continued to send characters after the CTS input was taken low.
1992	In order to cater for this anomaly the microcontroller will continue to recognise characters for a further 4mS by which time the host should have ceased sending characters.
1992	The interface should then be connected to the serial port of the host and the demo software listing loaded.
1991	The formation of planetary systems and the size and chemical composition of each member are, then, remarkably regular: given a sun-sized star a generally comes up with a similar range of planets to that in the solar system, with small rocky planets closest to the star and the large gaseous ones further out (due to the effects of gravity, orbits would later space themselves out along the lines of our own solar system).
1991	This rna strand is called ribosome, and is somewhat like a tape which the rna can zip through to specify the correct amino acid.
1977	At a later stage in the planning, accommodation was also provided for that part of the Unit which moved in 1974 from London to temporary accommodation in Edinburgh at the Edinburgh Regional Computing Centre and at King's Buildings.
1992	The package comprises a CD player, our anthology and the software to run it, whereas before you needed all sorts of hardware to run videos on .
1992	The essential difference, I feel, is that they are operated by humans in a much more direct way than a or beatbox.
1992	I then took all the cabinets and gave them deep-dish handles, plus I used the old logo from the early '50s and expanded it length-wise on a , to see how it looked.
1992	The guitar is still the one that could never be replaced by anything digital because you would never be able to get the same sound and feel on a .
1992	He's got fifteen , you name it.
1992	You can also dump your data (your favourite patches, etc.) to disk, so that in the event of disaster the TriAxis can be completely reloaded with them.
1992	Some of this work can be achieved by machine and at Kaohsiung computerised buffers take care of the large, flat areas (you can often spot the 's work on the backs of guitars, by the buffing lines which run across the body at 90 degrees to the grain).
1992	Now, seeing as my own literacy extends only as far as Super Mario Bros, I'm left feeling a little bewildered by it all.
1992	This is a means whereby analogue signals like guitar, vocals etc. can be converted to digital and inputted to storage, to be sequenced and looped or whatever digital hocus pocus takes your fancy.
1992	It's easy for them to say, ‘Okay, put this in the and we'll find someone to sing it.’
1992	KORG A2 or A3 guitar cards to borrow or a system exclusive data on a 3½″ disk.
1992	Visit your nearest Clinique counter for a personal skin analysis on the famous Clinique and find out which three products are right for your 3 Step skincare programme.
1984	Hard wear or soft wear referred to tweed, not to .
1987	With its emphasis on the importance of personal uniqueness, it gives to the individual a value one is increasingly in danger of losing in this age.
1987	Administering the remedies in this way allows the body to process each remedy individually, a situation analogous to presenting a with only one program at a time.
1987	If one attempted to present a with more than one program at a time, it would be unable to deal with the situation and would indicate that an error had been made.
1987	In recent years this idea has been computerized to aid in remedy selection and several programs now exist.
1987	It is similar to reprogramming a , with the remedies being the program.
1987	Many of us spend much of our working day slouched over office desks, typewriters, or other instruments, and our leisure time slumped in front of a television set, while the journey from home to work is usually by some sort of mechanized transport — often in cars which do little to improve our posture.
1991	In North Yorkshire, a total of £35,000-worth of fake designer sportswear and games was seized.
1991	‘Top of the list this year are games, designer sportswear, audio and video cassettes, perfume, watches — such as fake Rolex and Gucci — and jeans.’
1992	There are ways of plotting the profile of the gore, and the mathematically minded will no doubt enjoy a exercise of setting up the progressively  diminishing diameters, and the calculation of gore width at 10% stages from base to apex.
1992	For many knitters, the fact that Creation 6 is a software program, with all the limitations to information file size that that infers, is almost irrelevant.
1992	Every has a finite, or limited, amount of memory and the E6000 console is no exception.
1992	The information may be text, numbers, colours and so on, or information for the central processor unit.
1992	All information when inside the is stored in binary code form.
1992	The big difference of course between Designaknit Professional and a charting device, is that Designaknit Professional is a program rather than a knitting machine attachment.
1992	The diagram is therefore drawn on the screen with the aid of a mouse instead of being drawn on to paper or a plastic sheet.
1992	Creating your own designs on the screen does not actually involve any drawing because it is done by plotting a series of points or co-ordinates, which the automatically joins up to form a two dimensional shape it is a bit like joining the dots in a dot to dot picture, except that you have to decide where the dots will go and the does the joining up!
1990	He was listening to Mahler and the emotions the composer always aroused in him were affecting his game of chess, making it turbulent, unconsidered.
1990	‘Merde ,’ he shouted, as the lights of the blinked interminably.
1985	The trees are a valuable visual aid when solving small problems by hand but ‘pointers’ such as P(i) are essential for handling problems of a realistic size on a .
1985	For example, if the optimal solution of the LP has 40 non-integer components, there are 2&sup40; or about 10&sup12; solutions to test and this could well take years, even on a very fast .
1985	Such questions can only be answered by experimenting on a .
1991	(If the terminology makes you reel uncomfortable, remember that it is not suggested that we are .
1991	Gate B — pursuing his current job in sales — led on to a tarmac road, and then into a grey housing estate, ending in a cul-de-sac.
1987	We now turn up Avenida Zarco past the Post Office, which has recently been re-modelled inside in glass and marble and with all the latest equipment — but the service has not improved and the stamps still have no glue.
1991	He's been telling the girls that their costumes for the video will be added by using graphics.
1991	?
1991	are, in fact, as any fule kno , the bloody business!
1991	You can win not only a Megadrive 16-bit console (exquisitely styled to produce faster and smoother games playing scenarios and requiring greater levels of skill and dexterity, it sez here) but also a brand new Michael Jackson game to go with it.
1991	Send your answers by please (or by post if you are in New Model Army) to Thrills Moonwalker Competition  And then be the first of two people out of the spangly hat.
1991	I was a engineer, though normally I tell journalists I was a gravedigger.’
1991	Can you handle a 75-minute, mind-expanding barrage of animation, with state-of-the-art graphics and all manner of other psychedelic hogwash, set to a totally techno-ed up, in-the-mix soundtrack that comes fully digitalised so you can plug it through your stereo and stick your arms in the air to the glorious quality that rampages through your Amstrad Death Box?
1991	VARIOUS ON DRUGS: Danger Zone Volume 1
1991	VARIOUS : Reactivate Five
1991	VARIOUS ON DRUGS: Trance Dance
1991	VARIOUS ON DRUGS: Warehouse Raves 7
1992	The program had automatically rounded the figure up to 5 per cent.
1992	So I rang United Airlines head office, at my own expense, and spoke to a woman who could find no record of me on the UA .
1992	I pointed out that it had already been a month, and there was no record of me on the Chicago .
1992	A woman in the UA baggage claims department checked on the , but could find no record of me.
1992	Administration can be done by double-entry book-keeping, but is quicker and cheaper if the core group has access to a .
1992	About 20 other people were denied a vote through a ‘error’.
1992	‘The FBI's solution…is to force the telecommunications and industries to redesign their modernized systems to accommodate the Bureau's needs…
1992	Four years in the making, the three-day event had itself been organised by a team of 15 people based in the US, Hong Kong, South Africa, Brussels, Leeds and Manchester, all communicating by electronic mail (so-called ‘e-mail’, in which messages typed into a personal are sent by telephone line to a big, central that stores them until they are called up by one or more addressees using their own ).
1992	‘Soul’ is established as a category containing phenomena as disparate as Professor Paul Davies' conviction that what we know of the universe points to a grand design, Miriam Rothschild's delight in the beauty of her biological subject matter, and Oliver Sacks' realisation that his patients' brains do not resemble .
1992	Oliver Sacks is hardly putting himself out on a limb when he affirms that the brain is not like a : neuroscientists have been telling the Artificial Intelligence buffs that for years.
1992	It doesn't imply the failure of science and the need to recognise the existence of a non-material mind; just that the digital is a different sort of system to the brain.
1992	Each of these symbols translates happily enough through time to produce an informal heritage, and the sense of past experience working to shape the modern landscape, where barn conversions harbour hardware, is unignorable.
1992	Now that all the poll tax register equipment is installed, there is a strong case to let it be used to compile the electoral roll on the same basis.
1992	$200 million will be donated for , supplies and updated books (each student shall have the necessary books).
1992	Another scheme put forward by reformers is the Dedicated Sprout System, which uses to translate the wishes of the electorate into parliamentary fractions.
1989	‘He says that the night I returned Mr Laing his passport, duly altered, the young man spent most of the night in the room, and left before dawn with a large amount of printout.
1989	Could I have access to your central for a while?’
1989	It took the Colonel four hours at the console of the master in Riyadh.
1989	He listened soberly and with growing dismay to what the young bank officer from Jeddah had to say, and scanned the printouts across his desk with a practised eye.
1989	‘And I brought a mass of printout to back up what I had found,’ he said carefully, but his stomach was churning.
1989	This morning I ordered our central here to hack into the Riyadh and do a check.
1989	They used instead of quill pens, but the outcome of their labours was still the same as it had been for centuries — trade, the buying and selling of things that other people made.
1989	The number it came from would then be revealed by the to be such and such a booth in a certain place.
1989	The main data were on .
1989	He tapped the number into the console of his desk-top .
1986	The heart of this new technology is, of course, a small chip of silicon, measuring less than 10 mm. square, containing extremely complex electronic circuitry which can be used either as the central processing unit or the memory of a .
1986	The technological breakthrough allowing primitive versions of such chips to be made came in the 1960s, and it was in 1969 that M. E. Hoff at the Intel Corp. in California developed the idea of a on a chip.
1986	Today's microcomputer, at a cost of perhaps $300, has more computing capacity than the first large electronic , ENIAC [Electronic Numerical Integrator and ].
1986	If automobile technology had advanced as fast as technology over the same period then the current equivalent BL car, the Metro, would now cost 45 pence to buy, and run for over a year on a gallon of petrol.
1986	It is, however, extremely unlikely that any of us could find a use for a hundred of these cars, even if we could solve the problem of getting into them, and this illustrates a fundamental difference between the car and the , and another reason for speaking of a microelectronics revolution.
1986	These include all the watches and calculators that each member of the household has (10), the laundry equipment (3), an electric drill with electronic control, two radios, the hi-fi equipment (3), two TVs, and video recorder, and two remote controllers for them, a home , word processor, and printer, three electronic alarm clocks, a food mixer, toaster, vacuum cleaner, and three dimmer switches for the lights.
1986	are now widely used in hospitals for running machines performing diagnostic services, and increasingly used for patient and hospital management.
1986	Within factories major developments have been the applications of to process and production control, the introduction of computer-aided design and draughting (CAD), numerically controlled (CNC) machine tools, and robots.
1986	Electronic games, home , video recorders, and interactive cable or satellite TV are obvious examples of this.
1986	Others are the use of in aiding designers and in controlling production processes.
1986	If one makes the more realistic assumption that the GDP growth rate would fall from 3 per cent to nearly zero over this decade then the figure of 4.5 million unemployed comes out of the Cambridge .
1986	One is reminded of the early expert, but possibly apocryphal, prediction that the maximum number of which could be envisaged as being necessary in the UK might be as much as two.
1986	From these a consensus has emerged, which is probably reliable, that the main areas in which there are likely to be substantial effects due to new technology are in the engineering industry, with the increased use of CAD and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), and the use of robots; in offices through office automation, in which the use of word processors with or without linkages via networks and data bases to form paperless offices is predicted to bring substantial improvements in productivity, though the effects on skills is at the moment quite unclear; and in the industry itself, where there is substantially increased demand for software engineers.
1986	He illustrates this with an historical account of the development of the controlled machine tool.
1986	The advent of relatively cheap microelectronics meant that by the late 1960s it had become possible to control these machines by dedicated mini- or micro-computers directly attached to them, such machines having ‘numerically control’ or CNC.
1986	The stored biscuit recipes on punched paper tapes which, when fed into the , put the correct amounts of ingredients into the appropriate mixing machines.
1986	The controlled not only the mix recipe but also the time, speed, temperature, and timing of all the mixing operations and indicated when the operator should add the various ‘sundry’ ingredients (those that had to be added in small quantities).
1986	All mixing now took place in fully enclosed machines, and faults in the process were flashed onto a ‘mimic board’ by the .
1986	Semi-skilled operators were now used instead of master bakers and the took much of the knowledge element out of the job.
1986	There are three or four operators who've been here longer than the , and I can see they've really switched off.
1986	Packets leaving the wrapping machine still passed over the checkweigher as before but now, instead of merely passing or rejecting each pack, the captured the data it measured and performed various analyses including the average weight and standard deviation for each hour.
1986	With MDI the skilled craftsman operating this machine would be able to write his own program to control the machine and enter it directly into the machine's .
1986	Instead, the bodies are loaded onto individual carriers, known as automated guided vehicles (AGVs), which travel around the assembly plant under their own power and are individually guided by signals sent out through wires in the floor from a bank of central .
1986	Although the carriers are normally fully under the control of the , there is the facility for the work group to give commands to the from one of 40 VDUs scattered throughout the plant.
1992	‘Many nurses may find the task of entering the script onto the GP's is delegated to them so the time saved from being able to prescribe starts to disappear.’
1992	The solicitors moved in, volunteers answered phones, typed documents, and novices learnt to operate the and word-processors.
1992	It led the way in providing to the grubby masses, only to show the opposition what money could be made in this way.
1992	Racers flashed past spectators at speeds of up to 80mph, and nobody knew who was winning the medals until the had flashed the result on the scoreboard.
1992	At the first hearing, she had a gloomy, slit-mouthed sidekick with the worst case of acne I've seen since I gave up programming, but this time he wasn't there.
1992	Actually, Cliff, our simulation suggests that, in the unlikely event of your making a nude video, Britain would sigh, ‘Oh dear, the poor old boy's been a bit of a git.’
1992	The Tokyo Stock Exchange keeps its back-up next to the main and there are no records outside Tokyo.
1992	In the event of an earthquake destroying these two , every foreign investor with shares in Japan would have no proof of ownership.
1992	In his latest book he tells of sophisticated that can move tall buildings in the opposite direction to the tremors.
1992	But these are so far untested.
1992	He flicks through his in search of the file marked: ‘Over-confidence; The Perils Of,’ and he produces a stream of anodyne phrases which might have been scripted at Anfield or Old Trafford: ‘Take nothing for granted…great respect for the opposition…must get it right on the day.’
1992	But a pit lane full of Longines-Olivetti gear and Desert Storm-style motor-homes has reduced the role of these companions.
1992	The aircraft's interior has been given a ‘wide inside’ look with increased cabin width and wider aisles, while onboard systems enhancements include IBM's PS/2 system as a cabin work station, providing in-flight database access via satellite link.
1992	Add the cost of a compatible with a modem and the costs continue rising — plus a haemoglobin-measuring device, a lung function tester, etc.
1992	As well as being a legal requirement, it is also in the registered owner's interests to ensure that the information held on the UK Register by the CAA is accurate, as the addresses held on their database are used for the distribution of Emergency Airworthiness Directives and other safety-related material.
1970	Hartley's philosophy was in fact an early form of the twentieth-century scheme of mental association known as Behaviourism (Pavlov's dogs were taught to salivate at the sound of an electric bell), and if writing today he would presumably have compared the brain to a .
1990	The very latest equipment features programming of all the above, with the capability to memorise all the parameters for several different models.
1985	It is becoming less useful to enter into each other 's feelings, more and more convenient to consult one's pocket .
1985	Everything and everyone is drained of value except as means to my own dwindling and at last exclusively pre-human ends, and I myself am equally a means in the eyes of everyone else, as I am forced to recognize whenever an automaton interacting with me reaches for its own pocket .
1985	Let us imagine that the traveller has at his disposal a , far ahead of present possibilities, into which — we assume the behaviourist position -is continually fed all, and much more than, his own information about himself and his situation.
1985	Does ‘Be aware’ now require him to act on the advice of the ?
1985	He would obey it by consulting the for the information he has missed.
1991	No doubt will be utilized to manage and track the inevitable masses of information and to provide comparative fitness testing data on what could be a pool of more than 100 players in the three categories.
1991	It's a software product designed to run on either PC or Macintosh , and offers not just the facility to record, but also to analyse your training performances over several sports simultaneously.
1991	Whether or not computerised logging will appeal to you depends largely on your attitude towards .
1990	Tony Perratt, also a plasma physicist of Los Alamos National Laboratory and a former student of Alfven's, has conducted experiments that bear out Alfven's ideas at laboratory level, and simulations have confirmed his data on a galactic scale.
1990	The brain, now realised to be a ‘processor’ of information rather than a ‘’, is also recognised as being a gland allied with the endocrine system.
1990	A similar machine now being produced, named the Theratest, employs an electronic probe which monitors the condition of the energy in the meridians, The information is transferred to a from which a reading and assessment is made.
1990	A strip chart recorder duplicates the reading of the and forms a permanent record.
1990	Treatment with the Theratest method is effected by either traditional needle acupuncture or the electronic probe, which is similar to a ballpoint pen, that directs a weak electrical discharge into the points determined by the readout.
1990	The monitor verifies and records the healing process to its completion.
1992	FOUR-year-old Nicholas MacMahon, Britain's latest child prodigy, is already studying at university.
1992	YESTERDAY Dr Julia Schofield received an MBE for her work in tailoring software to the needs of blind people.
1992	But nevertheless this week's startling news that Nicholas MacMahon, the four-year-old Mozart-loving genius, could talk and read before he was a year old set me wondering about my own wild-eyed nine-month-old infant.
1992	SCHOOLS of the future may use more than today's parents would believe possible, but terminals will never replace teachers.
1992	Advances in telecommunications have meant that it is just as easy to work from a terminal at home as it is from a town centre office.
1992	‘We transferred the and the samples to a bedroom in the old house with a view to moving to somewhere more suitable,’ she says.
1992	Not all people who decide to work from home will be lucky enough to have a ready-made office space and they will need to make changes in their accommodation, even if it is only finding a place to keep the and the phone.
1992	Another firm, Oakmoor Telecentres, provides made-to-measure prefabricated offices equipped with cabling.
1992	Just weeks before her death Kelly sat with her father at the keyboard in her bedroom and keyed in all the arrangements she had made for her funeral.
1992	‘This was her school project,’ he explains, picking up a long print-out.
1992	She wanted games like Sonic the Hedgehog, things that he liked too.’
1992	Books today compete with games, TV and videos.
1992	Surely this could be done by .
1992	Most of the calls made to houses are as a result of information given out by LASSY — the largest database in Europe.
1992	SPENDING Christmas zapping aliens or helping Sonic the Hedgehog to dodge graphic nasties might sound mindless to parents — but it could be great mental exercise for thousands of game-crazy youngsters.
1992	James's improved scores are good news for all Britain's surrogate Santas who were persuaded to buy games for their children.
1992	Officers now work with cars instead of bicycles, radios instead of whistles, riot gear instead of truncheons, plus a range of and technical wizardry.
1992	1993 will be the year of the electric car, the video phone and the notebook — you write by hand and it comes out in print.
1992	1 MARIO was the 1980 brainchild of Japanese genius Shigeru Miyamoto but originally had only a walk-on part in the game Donkey Kong.
1992	There are many splendid things to acquire, including the equipment from the recently installed gymnasium with its rowing machine and print-out, so you can envisage yourself sculling on the Thames.
1992	Interfaces connect patient's personal with central database and, like a flight recorder, tracks all vital functions before, during and after operation.
1992	The contents of every breath the patient takes are logged in the monitoring his progress.
1992	A screen linked to Britain's only medical mass-spectrometer gives a constant read-out of gases inhaled and exhaled by patient.
1992	ANDY Chipling sat back and admired the programme he had just completed, bent down to switch on his printer at the powerpoint and stared in horror as a week's toil disappeared off the screen.
1992	MIT Virtual Reality is also being further developed for games.
1992	Now Amiga owners are in for a treat with Mindscape's home version of the Nintendo toads.
1992	THEY are the most recognisable people in the world — unless you catch them in their games guises.
1992	YOUR children may be pestering you to give them a games system for Christmas but you may be better off with a real instead.
1992	The basic design is pretty ancient in terms.
1992	SNEAKERS: Robert Redford leads a group of hackers into the world of espionage.
1992	Sir Clive, 51, also invented the pocket calculator, home and the digital watch.
1992	Or it could be the in the corner that keeps us awake.
1992	OLD people who need treatment for heart conditions may just be statistics to hospital bosses — but think how important they are to their families and of the contribution they have made to this country.
1992	At the heart of the system are two inter-linked , one assessing the environment outside the car, the other checking the driver's judgment according to the position of the pedals and information from sensors.
1992	SNEAKERS: Robert Redford leads hackers into the world of espionage.
1992	Although Orlan takes her inspirations from the Old Masters she uses state-of-the-art imagery to ‘re-design’ her face.
1992	Perhaps now we can also replace TV, video and games with such old-fashioned delights as charades, bracing walks and conversation.
1992	If you can't go abroad yet, just go into your local JobCentre and ask for a search of overseas vacancies.
1992	Minitel — a database that can be rented by any telephone subscriber through France's telecommunications agency, ACT — offers thousands of vacancies, and you can advertise yourself.
1992	SNEAKERS: hackers enter the world of espionage in this comedy-drama.
1992	The Swedish giant fitted 83 cars with which simulated motoring problems by lighting dashboard warning lights, changing speedo and other readings, causing strange noises and even showing blue flashing lights in the rear-view mirror.
1992	Let the Jack Nicklaus Golf and Course Design, Signature Edition game improve their handicap.
1992	They can play any course against up to 72 golfers — £39.99 by Accolade from Virgin, HMV, Boots and W H Smith.
1992	She chose the multicolour puffball creation for her London wedding to programmer Danny Daggenhurst who she met and fell in love with a year ago.
1992	His software group Vistec has romped in with a record increase of 29% to £1.3m in the first half, and the City is pinning its hopes on a further leap from £1m to £3.3m in the full year.
1992	A profit warning from equipment supplier INSTEM had its shares falling 20p to 80p.
1992	But the Newcastle-based group Sage has surged ahead by 20p to 454p after a 32% annual profits increase.
1992	His choice for your Christmas stocking includes pig-breeder Cranswick, Capita Group which runs departments for local government, electronic publisher Dorling Kindersely, and pen people Platignum.
1992	firm Pegasus had its wings clipped and closed unchanged at 120p after a boardroom shake-up.
1992	‘Sure, I heard of the game, but games ain't exactly my strong suit,’ he says.
1992	Japanese genius Shigeru Miyamoto based the character of Super Mario on the caretaker at Nintendo's first offices in New York.
1992	‘We talked about ,’ she said.
1992	nerd ‘a spy’
1992	A hacker is to be charged with spying after allegedly testing American Defence Department security.
1992	His lawyer says he is just ‘a curious nerd’.
1992	After phoning his wife Sheila to tell her he had arrived safely, the boss was never seen again.
1992	The former RAF Hercules pilot and director of Hastings-based South East , which has since folded, had planned to spend just two days in America.
1992	The think-tank will have florists rubbing shoulders with the chief of Apple .
1992	A WOMAN is believed to have lured British boss Howard Bates to his death and then helped bury his body in a swampland grave.
1992	The robbers then used key-codes to open the strongroom, and packed the 200 million francs into bags.
1992	A BLIND expert yesterday vowed to beat the Buckingham Palace ban on guide dogs.
1992	A expert was sacked when he handcuffed himself to his woman boss while she was on the phone to a customer.
1992	‘In my view, he committed an assault by restraining Miss Cooper against her will,’ services manager Sandra Lord told a London industrial tribunal yesterday.
1992	games in price probe
1992	game giants Sega and Nintendo are under secret Government investigation.
1992	games giants have been warned to slash prices or face legal action.
1992	Cut game prices now — or be forced by law
1992	game giants were last night given the ultimatum: Cut prices — or be forced by law.
1992	Following the exclusive revelations in TODAY, the Office of Fair Trading has confirmed the games industry is ‘under informal investigation’.
1992	LABOUR'S Nigel Griffiths checked out claims of game rip-offs yesterday by going a few rounds with Sega's Sonic The Hedgehog.
1992	CENSORS are planning a massive offensive against a flood of high-tech porn and violence.
1992	The massive popularity of the latest generation of games has indicated the huge market available for high-tech entertainment.
1992	Forces currently use different equipment with separate systems and communications networks.
1992	A spokesman at the store, which had knocked £70 off £220 cameras and up to £8 off games, said: ‘We have been overloaded with people.
1992	TWO game-crazy brothers are on course to make a fortune after becoming Britain's youngest national magazine editors.
1992	We write most of it and mum puts it into a .
1992	William, 10, and eight-year-old Harry were given airline packs of colouring books and puzzles but chose to concentrate on a new game.
1992	Within a few months she expanded the business and took over a firm from Hertfordshire employing about 120 people.
1992	SEX pests who send pornographic messages to terminals used by female work colleagues are to be targeted in a new union crackdown.
1992	worker Fred Prassaler escaped death by seconds.
1992	BOY wonder Nicholas MacMahon enters a brave new world as he takes his first tentative taps on a keyboard.
1992	But the row was far away from the little genius as he got to grips with the wonders of .
1992	booby-trap
1992	A expert planted a ‘logic bomb’ programme in his employers' system when he left the firm after a clash with the boss.
1992	Hardy, of Cowley, near Uxbridge, Middlesex, admitted tampering with material.
1992	Peter Turner, a installation manager from Lower Earley, near Reading, Berks, was stopped in his white Astra.
1992	But there are still worries that rising credit will only suck in more imports, as shoppers rush to buy , camcorders and other foreign goods.
1992	Transport minister Steven Norris arrived at Victoria to find no lighting, no heating, no new electronic passenger information and no ticketing.
1992	After Home Alone 2's record-breaking success in the US, British merchandisers have let their imaginations run riot to devise everything from games to yo-yos bearing either Macauley's face or the film's title.
1992	A spokeswoman for Ashford District Council said: ‘When you are dealing with and almost 250,000 houses, mistakes are bound to happen.
1992	In the last 18 months, the Japanese have snapped up 1.2 million Barcode Battlers, which now outsell the hand-held Nintendo and Sega games.
1992	Tickets, likely to cost £1, will go on sale by 1994 in shops and booths linked to a state-of-the-art which will be used to draw the winning numbers.
1992	Yesterday's mourners included members of Elizabeth's family and staff from the firm Julie and her husband managed at Milton Keynes, Bucks.
1992	They say they have the expertise and nationwide systems to make the national flutter a success.
1992	Mr Wickins was one of several company directors of the Wimbledon-based Games Ltd firm, which owns a small chain of shops selling everything from board games to games.
1992	And despite the fact their team is in a division that includes local rivals such as Bolton, Preston, Blackpool, Stockport and Wigan, the vagaries of the Football League's fixtures means they face a 576-mile round trip to Brighton to see their idols play today.
1992	There's Rodney's Amstrad for starters, which would solve all those book-keeping problems you've been 'aving.
1980	Just as workers in the mass production system they too have at their command machines endowed with amazing powers (such as ), but they too cannot alter their environment significantly.
1991	ONE of the most fashionable applications at the moment is Desk Top Publishing.
1991	It is highly technical not just in the sense that it involves technology but also because it is totally based in the area of printing.
1990	Surrounded as we are by solutions of all kinds, each one supported by persuasive evidence of attested success, we cannot but be tempted into the belief that somewhere among them there will be one which matches our particular teaching problem and which can therefore be slotted into our situation like a cassette or a programme.
1990	I am compelled to take this view by the early results of processing of language text.
1990	Before the advent of the , H. E. Palmer, Michael West and others carried out word frequency studies on a corpus of language data with a view to determining the content of language courses.
1990	Consider an example from the new Collins Cobuild dictionary (1987), of which Sinclair is editor-in-chief and which is based on just the kind of analysis of text that he refers to.
1990	Token descriptions on a massive scale are now possible with the development of the .
1990	For some years I tended to assume that the would merely give us a better documented description of the language, but I do not think that that position remains tenable.
1990	What is required is that the language which is pedagogically presented should be a projection of that which actually occurs as recorded by the analysis of text.
1990	And this is something which analysis of a corpus cannot of course determine.
1990	With regard to description, analysis of text provides the means for identifying these expressions since their normality is a function of their occurrence as holistic units.
1993	Enterprise Holdings, for instance, in its p&l account to 31 March 1992, includes ‘purchased goodwill previously written off against reserves’, cancelled out a few lines later by an equal and opposite amount under ‘reinstatement of goodwill written off above’.
1993	There is a particularly cold-blooded tycoon lurking in Coopers & Lybrand's head office — Ian Brummer, a ‘ruthless’ manager, cleaned up at the first City Monopoly Challenge, virtually bankrupting everyone else in sight.
1993	.
1993	Or they can pick up cut-price plant and equipment, or systems.
1993	‘We've got expensive systems and expensive professionals on board that can cope with a large chain of shops.
1993	Electonic data — or document — interchange differs from electronic mail in that information is exchanged in the form of structured ‘documents’ adhering to some standard understood by both sending and receiving .
1993	Of course, for early EDI users, getting two , one's own and one belonging to a trading partner, to talk to one another , was quite enough of a challenge, without worrying about other people you and your partners might want to communicate with some time in the future.
1993	Digital's HostBridge for DEC/EDI Application Services is an approach to integrating systems from different vendors, specifically IBM mainframes and DEC VAXs, into a single architecture.
1993	It's being used to integrate Ericsson's applications: to pass all kinds of data, in batch mode, between systems running on various platforms.
1993	‘You might have a sales order processing system sitting on one ; once an order has been processed, it sends a message to an inventory system on another , which checks whether the item is there, and if it is initiates the shipment, or if not may request the supply of the item by sending a message to a third system.
1993	Atlas EDI offers a very cost-effective and flexible way of getting started in EDI; the biggest cost is to develop or acquire routines to import data from their other systems.
1993	It will allow instant and easy access, on screens, to the financial reports and results of 4.5m companies in over 40 countries, and is believed to be the largest integrated online database of its kind.
1993	disasters
1993	Due to the late arrival of many entries, the deadline date for the Nightmares Competition (see ACCOUNTANCY , November 1992, p 61) was extended to December 14 1992.
1993	‘The costs are the biggest bar to people setting up on their own but I could use his phones, his photocopier, , telex, even his secretary to begin with.’
1993	The Regulations apply only where screens are habitually used by one or more employees as a significant part of daily work.
1993	For some it means a learning pack containing a work book, audio cassette and video tape; for others it is a technology that combines audio, television, and telecommunications.
1993	Today's multimedia systems use a to control and mix sound, video, text, graphics and animation on a or television screen.
1993	It can also enhance company reports and documentation; for instance, an insurance company claims assessor can examine diagrams, photographs, verbal notes and text on a desktop .
1993	Not surprisingly, the major , consumer electronics and telecommunications companies are hoping to grab a share.
1993	One of the most widely used multimedia systems in the financial sector is interactive video (IV), which uses a video disc player connected to a .
1993	A growing number of multimedia systems are using CD-Roms, compact discs that store vast amounts of data.
1993	If a user wants to read all the news stories on say, Lloyd's insurance, he or she simply types in the name on a keyboard and a complete list of stories appears on the screen in seconds.
1993	IBM markets a range of multimedia , while Microsoft and a consortium of companies have developed the Multimedia PC (MPC) standard, which converts a desktop into a multimedia machine.
1993	Anyone with a suitably equipped IBM or compatible can convert it to an MPC by adding a sound card, CD-Rom drive and Microsoft's Windows 3.1 software (upgrade kit prices start from around £600).
1993	Microsoft recently announced Video for Windows, which enables a desktop to display small video clips.
1993	The company also markets Sound System, a £200 upgrade kit that allows users to speak to their .
1993	Users can make verbal annotations and even control the by voice commands, such as‘delete file’.
1993	Although a CD-I player is really a powerful , it has been designed to look and feel like a CD player or VCR.
1993	This makes the format much friendlier to use than a desktop and keyboard.
1993	The American microchip giant Intel has developed Digital Video Interactive (DVI) which enables a suitably equipped desktop to display full motion digital video.
1993	The judges the trainee's advice and provides feedback.
1993	Although multimedia is rapidly changing the way look and feel, it is in communications where it is likely to have the greatest impact.
1993	The buzz word is supported collaboration or CSC, which allows users to exchange various types of information from their workdesk.
1993	A typical CSC workstation consists of a with a microphone and video camera.
1993	Olivetti also plans to launch its Personal Communications .
1993	Anyone with a suitably equipped IBM or compatible can convert it to a Multimedia PC
1993	This is produced by Apple .
1993	QuickTime enables desktop to display video in a small corner of the screen.
1993	Developed by Kodak and Philips, Photo CD allows users to store up to 100 high quality photographic images on a CD and watch them on a TV set or screen.
1993	Photo CD is ideal for putting pictures into and as a low cost, photographic database.
1993	Canon says that Still Video is an ideal medium for multimedia presentations because users can mix photographs, text and graphics on a , record them on a still video disk and display them on a TV.
1993	Canon markets still video systems for IBM and compatible PCs and Apple .
1993	This is partly because relatively few businesses use Commodore .
1993	But while the telephone itself remains little more than an instrument for reproducing speech and other sounds at a distance, over the last decade we have seen dramatic growth in the availability and use of , modems and fax to transmit documentary and computerised information over the telephone network.
1993	Its circuits now carry signals and data in a form that can be fed directly into processing equipment, enabling and other devices at remote points to communicate with each other.
1993	As a result of this expansion, the similarly widespread growth of networks, and the ongoing increase in the use of telephones, the demand for lines continues to rise.
1993	One of the most exciting areas will be where packages and the information carried by ISDN's signalling facilities interact.
1993	They could then analyse the data on their own : ‘Auditing remotely saves money and time, which is otherwise wasted by constantly going back and forth', he says.
1993	‘Imagine getting a client's accounts on your , with their voice explaining to you exactly what is going on and why.
1993	Connecting a to ISDN is done via a terminal adaptor, which plugs into the on one side, and the ISDN phone socket on the other.
1993	Alternatively, an internal ISDN card can be used for most desktop .
1993	So there is no need to pay expensive rental costs for dedicated lines which are only rarely needed — as on most corporate networks.
1993	ISDN also provides high quality, fast transmission which can't be achieved using an ordinary modem connection the usual way to date to exchange data on an ad hoc basis.
1993	It can be used to transmit data to and from sites where conventional lines are not available.
1993	To achieve this it separated operational and functional responsibilities within the practice and brought in outside professional managers who were non-accountants: principally Ray Pierce ex-chief executive of the Mortgage Corporation and a former general manager of American Express — as chief executive, and Mel Smaje, a quietly determined former rugby player with experience in the pharmaceutical and industries, as director of human resources.
1993	Examples include the general viewing of videos and television programmes, the use of audio tapes, participation in based learning programmes, distance learning, and any alternative form of learning where there is no interaction with other individuals, and no assessment (in the form of a further qualification) is provided.
1992	Now, the can do that…
1992	To start with the made not a blind bit of difference.
1992	Today the managing director can get lots of information from a ,’ he says.
1992	Sherwood Services, a London-based software company, has turned its entire organisation into self-managed client teams that report directly to the board.
1992	At the moment in which an engineer draws a line on his he is deciding the cost of the product for the next 10 years.
1992	At the moment in which an engineer draws a line on his he is deciding the cost of the product for the next 10 years.
1992	Although there are still some technical problems, developers are working on business software for wireless networks, and NEC hopes to open up the market by introducing a lightweight antenna-modem unit for use with one of its popular and established series of PCs.
1992	Once, the network was viewed as a means of sharing expensive equipment.
1992	As the desktop is being forsaken for lighter, more portable PCs, so the older proprietary mainframes are being superseded by less expensive but more powerful, more ‘open’ and more flexible systems.
1992	Although they relate to the growing tendency to move applications from larger machines to smaller ones (See ACCOUNTANCY , February, p 101), reduction in the size of the boxes is not the most significant factor.
1992	‘Downsizing, coupled with the current recession is not encouraging market investment,’ says Carlo de Benedetti, who heads Olivetti, the Italian giant.
1992	Once, the network was viewed as a means of sharing expensive equipment.
1992	Five years ago companies that bought their personal sight unseen through the mail were few and far between.
1992	Although Elonex came top of the rankings for both competitively priced products and services, it was the Dell Corporation that recently came top for overall quality in the Weekly /Kew Associates annual survey of IT suppliers, thanks to ‘its consistent supply of reliable and services.’
1992	As the survey indicated, reliable services are as significant as reliable .
1992	One such package is supplied by Cordingly Barnes: Pastel Accounting, the successor to TurboCASH, recently achieved the 1992 Best Buy award for budget software from Which ?— beating both Pegasus and Sage.
1992	Factors like the widespread increase in literacy and the contraction of the PC market have obviously effected the growth in direct sales.
1992	Reliable services are as important as reliable — especially to the purchaser from a small business background
1992	IT OFF THE SHELF The new superstores offer small and medium-sized businesses blue-chip buying power
1992	superstores are the latest trend to be transplanted from the US, after such retailing innovations as the grocery supermarket, hypermarkets and out-of-town shopping centres.
1992	They are a product of the current market: an oversupply of machines and recessionary pressures forcing companies to seek the cheapest deals.
1992	The trend follows hot on the heels of the phenomenal success of buying by direct mail, also pioneered in the US.
1992	But whereas the direct mail method is ideal for computer-literates who know what they want, superstores allow the undecided or the uninitiated to see under one roof what is on offer and to seek on-the-spot advice.
1992	There are two such chains of superstore in the UK — home-grown PC World, which opened its doors in Croydon last November, later adding a store in Thurrock, Essex, and the American-backed Business Superstore which has two branches, one in west London and one in Colindale in northwest London.
1992	An option for those sure of the system they wanted would have been one of the many mail order suppliers like Elonex, Opus, or even a sister company of PC World, like by Post (see panel: A Brief History).
1992	Business Superstore offers a whole range of products from systems and peripherals like cabling to office furniture and paper-clips.
1992	PC World regards itself as a specialist, claiming to be the largest supplier of products in Europe.
1992	Apart from the tables on which to place , PC World does not stock other secondary items.
1992	PC World's customer profile breaks down into those who know what they want but want to see it demonstrated and to be able to walk away with the product; those who know a bit, but have never bought a before; and corporate customers seeking the best value for money.
1992	‘You don't have to be a whizzkid or a specialist.
1992	At PC World, Mr Murray is conscious of the need to allay misgivings about after-sales care voiced by manufacturers when the superstore concept was mooted in the UK.
1992	There has been a revolution in the marketing of products and the winner looks like being the consumer.
1992	The superstore phenomenon began in North America in 1982.
1992	By the end of 1991, there were an estimated 78 superstores in the US, with combined sales of $2.8bn.
1992	Europe's first superstore, PC World, opened in November 1991.
1992	PC World is part of the Vision Technology Group, Europe's largest reseller of PCs and peripherals by mail order; by Post and Hi-Voltage are part of the group.
1992	products are relatively much cheaper in the US than in the UK, and Americans tend to be more literate.
1992	The US superstore CompUSA looks more like a warehouse, with products piled high and where knowledgeable customers are happy to make their selections.
1992	In the UK the boom in direct sales took the manufacturers by surprise.
1992	For example, we are currently advising a large company that occupies a building of some 60,000 sq ft .
1992	‘The UK still relies on the mainframe batch system, with a Associates general ledger, payables and receivables.’
1992	Intergraph is one of the world's leading manufacturers of graphics workstations and aided design and manufacturing (CADCAM) systems, with offices across the globe and annual sales exceeding $1bn.
1992	Dodge aims to provide a set of financial systems, which will enable users of networked to run sophisticated accounting applications that would formerly have required the power of a mainframe.
1992	For further details telephone Traffic on .
1992	An important way to the heart of the client's business has been through technology: and data networks.
1992	Another is International Factor's ‘Factel’, which allows clients to interrogate a screen to establish what cheques have been paid in by customers, whether there are disputed invoices and whether clients are approaching their bad debt protection limits.
1992	EDI speeds the flow of information and reduces the cost of communications because data is stored on the client's own as well as by the factor.
1992	Because invoice discounting does not involve banks of and armies of clerks to handle clients' sales ledgers it has been a low-cost way of getting into this market.
1992	Finally, the widespread use of personal has meant smaller businesses are now more able to manage their own ledgers cost effectively, so that fewer require a full factoring service.
1992	The statement sets out general principles — appropriate to all users — relating to efforts to minimise disruption of an organisation's activities and business, and potential financial loss as a result of failure.
1992	Open to the public via telephone or connection, the service claims to list 25,000 companies of all kinds.
1992	It studiously avoids areas such as and biotechnology.
1992	In the mid-eighties Pearl implemented an IBM mainframe-based general ledger and accounts payable system from Associates.
1992	Issued in June 1991, Pearl's ITT for a new financial systems and management information system was sent to four potential suppliers: Quality Software Products (QSP); Associates; Dun & Bradstreet Software (formed from MSA and McCormack & Dodge) and Walker.
1992	Associates was eliminated by the results of the ITT alone.
1992	As we approach the millennium, the price of power continues on its downward way.
1992	The more power is available, the faster business can be transacted, and the heavier become the competitive penalties for not having to hand the right information about your business and its environment.
1992	One oil company, for instance, considers it essential that details of every crude oil futures trade done anywhere in the world reach its head office system within two minutes of the trade's being concluded.
1992	Consequently, whereas networks used to be regarded primarily as a way of sharing expensive equipment — for instance, by hooking several sites up to a single mainframe — now the emphasis is increasingly on the sharing of information.
1992	All but the simplest PC LANs are likely to have a central acting as a file or database server, dedicated to looking after the data on behalf of all the desktop machines.
1992	Unix can have dumb terminals attached to them directly in much the same way as the traditional office minicomputer.
1992	But if instead of the terminals you substitute a network of personal or other intelligent workstations, you gain several advantages.
1992	So, for instance, if you wanted access to a management information system on your Unix , to an accounts system running on a mainframe, and to a spreadsheet running locally on the PC, it would be possible to reach all of them via the same windowing front-end.
1992	As we near 2000 we can expect to see not only more networking, but also networks that operate at higher speed and with greater capacity to cope with the increasing demands of modern applications such as‘multimedia’.
1992	By handling all network traffic in digital form, it is possible to integrate the processing of voice, data and other types of communication such as videoconferencing and videotelephony.
1992	Install one of these and you can send data over the line without a modem; voice traffic will have to be converted to digital form by special phone or exchange equipment.
1992	In other words, just one set of cabling round the office should cope with both the telephone system and the network.
1992	There are no unanimously agreed LAN standards, but if you want from different vendors to talk to one another, the chances are they can be hooked together, thanks to the efforts both of netware vendors and of the hardware manufacturers to make their products more ‘open’.
1992	Visualise a senior executive switching on a notebook PC in a hotel room, plugging the modem into the telephone socket and then settling down to tap into information stored on any of the organisation's systems, anywhere in the world, through a simple click-and-point action of the mouse.
1992	Although each of its trading locations around the world maintains its own accounts records, these records can be consolidated in next to no time to obtain an accountant's-eye view of Sumitomo's overall position, because physically they are all stored on a single .
1992	The accounts are processed by the Systems Union SunAccount system, supplied by Eclipse Computing, and running on a Risc-based Unix from DEC.
1992	But physically all the data is stored on a single , in New York, with remote access from London and Hong Kong and separate sets of accounting records for each location.
1992	The London and the Hong Kong each hold and run a copy of the SunAccount application software.
1992	If someone inputs a transaction in London, they do that on the local in the usual way.
1992	But instead of writing the information on its own disk, the London instantly sends the information to its counterpart in New York, which stores it centrally, on its disk.
1992	Similarly, if the London users want to enquire on the data, they initiate the enquiry on their local in the usual way, but behind the scenes the sends a message to its counterpart in New York asking for the data, which is then passed back across the network to be displayed on the enquirer's screen.
1992	Following detailed interviews with business and technical managers from the public and private sectors, the proposals suggest: the introduction of an accreditation scheme for IT security (including an independent audit of an organisation's security); production of generic guidelines and checklists aimed at helping organisations improve their own security procedures and training; research to improve access control mechanisms, especially for personal and network users; and, finally, awareness campaigns.
1992	Unauthorised access to a
1992	The Court of Appeal has held that an offence can be committed under the Misuse Act 1990 by the unauthorised use of one .
1992	It had previously been held in a lower court that a second had to be involved (p 101).
1992	On Mr Carr's instructions, his in-house accountant noted which stock lines AY was testing and altered the other lines of stock on a spread sheet.
1992	.
1992	A survey by The Booksellers Association last year showed a take-up of only 32% — a significant lag behind other industries — with 24% not using a at all.
1992	Books on floppy disk are being targeted at the business market, where there are multitudes of personal in use.
1992	Peter Wood is a specialist by training; IBM and a number of British companies all figure in his background.
1992	But it was working as a specialist in the insurance industry that gave him the necessary experience, most notably the motor insurance experience, he needed.
1992	While he was working for insurance brokers Alexander Howden (running its 350-strong management services company, which is responsible for everything from staff canteen to and the chairman's Rolls-Royce) he decided he ‘wanted to run a company from A-Z.
1992	Obviously with a background, I wanted to go into a business where you had large volumes.
1992	Given Peter Wood's background, it is scarcely surprising that Direct Line's systems impress.
1992	To keep initial setting-up costs to a minimum, all the office equipment — fax, personal and printer — is being purchased on three-year leases.
1992	Ironically, a sizeable proportion of tenants would like to move, now that their offices need sophisticated that old buildings can scarcely accommodate.
1992	crime
1992	FOILING THE FRAUDSTERS Don't be an ostrich when it comes to system security.
1992	But these figures look insignificant when compared to the cost of security breaches.
1992	Accurate estimates of the overall costs of misuse in the UK are hard to come by, but various recent figures put the annual cost at somewhere between £400m and £2bn.
1992	The Audit Commission's triennial surveys of fraud and abuse suggest an upward trend in the level of misuse during the nineties.
1992	Users and manufacturers have expended a lot of time and effort trying to find ways to improve security.
1992	As the Department of Trade and Industry's report Dealing with Misuse points out, there are two ways of doing this.
1992	misuse or security breaches can take many forms, but these all fall into two broad categories: physical and logical.
1992	In the days when most systems demanded their own room, ‘casual’ theft wasn't a problem, but the incredible shrinking PC has increased the likelihood of equipment going missing.
1992	Comprehensive, tried and tested disaster recovery procedures can make the difference between getting vital systems up and running again within hours or days, and going out of business.
1992	Every user should seriously consider protecting their system with an uninterrupted power supply.
1992	Dealing with the threat of logical security breaches poses much more of a problem because it demands a thorough understanding of the systems and the workings of the business they support.
1992	This was explained by lack of awareness or understanding of the problems of misuse on the part of potential victims.
1992	Demand for advice is strongest amongst actual victims of misuse, where it is effectively little more than a damage limitation exercise.
1992	Technical publications on abuse, security and auditing tend to focus on input, output, access, software and processing controls, while the media is all too often preoccupied with the potential threat posed by viruses and hackers (see ACCOUNTANCY , April, p 102, 103).
1992	These are important areas, but the writers usually concentrate on the technical and physical aspects of securing systems against external threats while neglecting the most common source of risk: from companies' own employees.
1992	Both figures are too high to ignore and prove, if nothing else, that the greatest threat to security comes from within.
1992	Increasingly, experts are seeing crime as a people rather than a technical problem.
1992	Researchers at the Woolwich Centre for Crime Research believe that improved personnel procedures have a key role to play in improving internal controls.
1992	Victims' concern over damage to their image results in many cases of fraud going unreported.
1992	In the recent NCC survey of security breaches in the UK, only 7% of the respondents had a policy of reporting all incidents of deliberate misuse to the police.
1992	The Metropolitan Police's Crime Unit in SO6 (company fraud) is the only UK unit dedicated to crime.
1992	Despite their responsibility for investigating lesser frauds, expertise is thin on the ground.
1992	The DTI survey found a reluctance to use available laws, such as the Misuse Act, to pursue criminals.
1992	As companies that do fall victim to crime prefer to deal with the problem internally, personnel security may well turn out to be the most vital component in a firm's defences.
1992	The greatest threat to security comes from within
1992	‘You can get 1-2-3 on every conceivable type of ,’ says Rob Ingram, technical sales manager at Lotus.
1992	Associates' CA-Compete and Lotus's Improv for the NeXT are examples of the genre.
1992	So far, the has proved very efficient at storing, manipulating and processing information.
1992	But, with the exception of image processing systems (see p 62), and the documents they generate have only added to the printed matter which covers most desks: even today 95% of business information is paper-based, and every year millions of working hours are wasted just searching for information.
1992	Touch-of-a-button access to all the required information would be the greatest boost to efficiency since were invented.
1992	For example, customer enquiries and correspondence can be scanned into the system on receipt, or entered by the telephone operator.
1992	All the relevant documents will then be appended to the same file, so that whenever a customer rings or when a job is actioned, all pertinent information is immediately to hand — for whoever needs it.
1992	THE NIGHTMARE COMPETITION
1992	All you have to do is tell us about the worst nightmare you've ever had.
1992	Entries will be judged purely on their entertainment value, so you don't have to be a literary genius or the proud possessor of a science degree to enter.
1992	These images can be stored in files and viewed on the screen of any personal connected to the system.
1992	The images are stored on a more powerful , called an image server, which not only handles the overall management of the system, but also controls the sending of images to users' PCs when they need to view them.
1992	We are now in DIP's third phase of evolution where we can expect vendors to supply comprehensive workflow software, providing intelligent automation of office tasks and complete integration with other systems in the business, as well as the automatic routing of document images to those who need to work with them.
1992	The workflow software recognises the type of query from the keyed data, gives the document a priority code, and automatically checks with the accounts to verify the sender's details.
1992	Operating on either DOS or Unix-based , the system costs £495.
1992	Pacioli 2000, which has received good reviews in the press, is a fully integrated accounts package suitable for small businesses.
1992	By using technology, James Capel's FT-SE 100 Index Fund aims to match the performance of the index of the UK's top 100 companies as closely as possible.
1992	DTI acts on misuse report
1992	The Department of Trade and Industry is to consult business about the implications of misuse — estimated to cost over £1bn a year — through a series of seminars to be held in London, Manchester, Birmingham and Bristol.
1992	This follows the publication of a DTI report, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, which cites lack of awareness of the Misuse Act and difficulty in identifying reliable expert advice as the main barrier to companies bringing cases forward.
1992	The report, which examined whether industry, commerce and the police had sufficient specialist advice to assist in the detection and investigation of offences, recommends that business and the Government highlight the cost of misuse as part of an overall promotion of security awareness; conduct regular surveys of the incidence of misuse; and encourage the development of a directory of suppliers of expert advice.
1992	Copies of the report,Dealing with Misuse,are available free from DTI Information and Manufacturing Technologies Division, 151 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1E 9SS.
1992	Unauthorised access to a
1992	The Court of Appeal recently decided that an offence can be committed under the Misuse Act 1990 by the unauthorised use of one (see Attorney-General's Reference (No 1 of 1991 )[1992]3 WLR 432).
1992	He was experienced in operating the assistants used when making sales to customers.
1992	Part-way through entering the sale on a , the sales assistant had to go into the store room to check the identifying number of the machine selected.
1992	The respondent took this opportunity to add an entry on the which gave a 70% discount on the sale.
1992	The respondent was tried for an offence contrary to s 2(1) of the Misuse Act 1990, having secured unauthorised access to a in contravention of s 1(1) of the 1990 Act with intent to commit a further offence of false accounting.
1992	S 1(1) provides that ‘a person is guilty of an offence if —(a) he causes a to perform any function to secure access to any program or data held in any ;(b) the access he intends to secure is unauthorised; and (c) he knows at the time when he causes the to perform the function that that is the case’.
1992	The trial judge upheld that submission on the ground that, on a true construction of s 1(1) (a), a second had to be involved, so that s 2(1) was inapplicable to the facts.
1992	The relevant words are ‘he causes a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any ’.
1992	To read these words as ‘held in any other ’, as the trial judge had done, would be to give them a meaning quite different from their plain and natural meaning.
1992	Therefore s 1(1) was contravened when, as happened in the present case, a person caused a to perform a function with intent to secure unauthorised access to any program or data held in the same .
1992	If the courts were to limit the offences to circumstances in which another was also involved, there would be nothing in the Misuse Act 1990 to cover industrial espionage or obtaining other confidential security information stored in a company's .
1992	In none of these cases could it be said that if a person entered the premises and caused a to exercise a function so as to reveal information, there had been access via one to another.
1992	This is the effect of a recent House of Lords' ruling that Spicer & Oppenheim, the former auditors of Atlantic , must hand over further documentation to the administrators of Atlantic's parent company, British & Commonwealth Holdings plc.
1992	Empowerment mainly seems to be taking hold in modern engineering and firms where dealing with state-of-the-art technology is a way of life and the job content is reasonably high.
1992	Plant and machinery, for example, was up 12% to £3bn and and other office equipment was up 11% to £2.5bn.
1992	The company also leases its document processing system and , all from NCR.
1992	Here, Fowler Welch leaves the arrangements up to the supplier.
1992	Fulcrum leases much of its hi-tech testing equipment and computer-aided design systems.
1992	We have to have returns to us at head office and to our French bureau, then we have to do the reconciliation between our bureau result and our Excel result.
1992	We'll iron out any problems we have, and ideally aim to implement the summer clubs with their own systems around about late May.’
1992	crime
1992	PERSONNEL POWER THE FIGHT AGAINST FRAUD Ensuring that employees do not compromise security can be a matter of putting appropriate personnel procedures in place
1992	Even now, most publications on abuse, audit and security emphasise the importance of input, output, access, software and processing controls (see ACCOUNTANCY , November, p 56).
1992	However, several authors have suggested that such an approach ignores the facts that people commit fraud, not , and that security is therefore about controlling people rather than machines.
1992	If the human element is crucial to the execution of abuse, it follows that a strong, constructive personnel management policy can provide a very powerful internal control and deterrent.
1992	All personnel should read, understand and comply with the policy as a condition of employment.
1992	The combined forces of the two firms' IT departments boast a strong mixture of experience and accounting knowledge, and they're planning to provide standard spreadsheets for use throughout the company.
1992	Despite much publicity, and the introduction of a number of programs to check banking charges (see ACCOUNTANCY , June, p 108), the banks are still overcharging.
1992	The post, which requires administrative ability, skills and complete confidentiality, is available from 1 May.
1980	After a time, the data was stored in a at army headquarters, Lisburn.
1987	Going back in time takes some imaginative effort, so please switch off your , video games and television sets.
1987	Out go the lights in Times Square and Piccadilly Circus and all the cinemas close down, and the IBM typewriters stop chattering, and the screens go blank.
1987	It is capitalism that generates the power of modernity, but the philosophies of the Enlightenment provide its guiding lights  (or, if you prefer, the ‘ghost in the machine’— the software in the 's brain).
1987	The ingenuity of the scientists and technologists, prompted by the necessity of wartime, had created postwar spin-offs: there was the development of the jet engine and radar, rockets and , plastics and new synthetic materials.
1987	At least this revolution was genuine because the comparatively cheap micro-chip made possible and affordable a computerised society.
1987	Videos and games, hi-fidelity television and quadrophonic sound are the sort of toys developed for people with nothing better to do.
1987	My abiding memory of the tour was the , word processors, IBM typewriter, and management ‘know how’.
1992	At a reception for Benn at the British Embassy, several of the Romanian ministers turned up including ‘Dragonescu, the Minister of Electricity, who  is also a great king, a tall, angular, intellectual man.
1988	How to look through a microscope, operate the , propagate plants.
1980	A report on this survey is attached as Appendix 1 (some material in the text  is derived directly from the print-out of the survey analysis, as well as from this report).
1980	On the information given (which is, for example, all that might be given in an intermediate credit advertisement under the Consumer Credit (Advertisements) Regulations 1980) the only way that the shopper, without access to a , can decide between these alternative APRs is subjectively.
1980	A is the only way he could weigh up the effect of the bus fare factor.
1980	What must be true is that no system of predicting good and bad risks — credit scoring, personal interview, previous payment history, or any combination of these — can be infallible.
1980	Both keep records of bankruptcies and judgements summonses filed in address order, covering the whole country (UAPT's nationwide register, opened in 1978, consisting of printed microfiche; CD's on filing cards).
1989	It is a fully automated generator of exercises for the learning of foreign languages and the software runs on industry-standard MS DOS Personal .
1989	Program means the Program contained in this package together with all codes, techniques, formats, designs, concepts, methods and ideas associated with the Program.
1989	Operate the Program on one (system) at a time.
1989	‘Background’ shall mean any inventions designs software reports drawings and other works and information made available before or during the Project but not generated under the Project and either belonging to the contributing Party or to which the contributing Party has the necessary rights for the purposes of the Project.
1989	‘Results’ shall mean any inventions designs software reports drawings or other works and information made or generated under in the course of work on the Project.
1989	Such consent shall not be withheld provided that the sub-licensor agrees to supply such technical information to the sub-licensee on conditions corresponding to the confidentiality conditions of this Agreement save that consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of any Party from whom consent is sought in respect of the supply of programs in source code form.
1989	10.7.7 Each Party, in exercising its rights under Clauses 10.7.2 to 10.7.6 shall be entitled to employ an agent or contractor, provided that 10.7.7.1 it shall not supply programs in source code form to such an agent or contractor without the prior written consent of the Party or Parties who have generated or supplied such programs or parts thereof, and
1989	The software packages published or to be published for general release or as customized packages by  and known as Inform, Workbase and Executive English for use in the environment of Apple Macintosh and CD-ROM.
1989	Agreement for Commissioned Software
1989	1.1 In accordance with the specification in Part 1 of the Schedule the Programmer will prepare a program and related materials for Reading for English MS DOS version (’ the Program’).
1989	The Programmer unconditionally and irrevocably waives the rights conferred by Chapter IV of Part I of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 on such (if any) of the Program as does not consist in a program or a computer-generated work: this waiver extends to the Publisher's sub-licensees and successors in title: it relates only to the components and not the Programmer's works generally or to works of a particular description.
1989	PRO FORMA AGREEMENT for Commissioned Software
1989	Commissioned Software
1989	PRO FORMA AGREEMENT for Commissioned Software
1989	1.1 In accordance with the specification in Part 1 of the Schedule the Programmer will prepare a program and related materials for [—](’ the Program’).
1989	The Programmer unconditionally and irrevocably waives the rights conferred by Chapter IV of Part I of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 on such (if any) of the Program as does not consist in a program or a computergenerated work: this waiver extends to the Publisher's sub-licensees and successors in title: it relates only to the components and not the Programmer's works generally or to works of a particular description.
1991	To the language of books is added the language of television and radio,…the processed codes of the .
1991	Many aspects of media education and IT involve the use of machines: still cameras, video, terminals, etc.
1991	Media education…seeks to increase children's critical understanding of the media — namely, television, film, video, photography, popular music, printed materials, and software.
1991	The possibilities are analogous to those in graphics that are offered to the designer by aided design (CAD).
1991	Since the information on a word processor or screen is visible to several children at once, it can be a vehicle for group discussion and exploration of the language.
1987	in Credit
1987	are fast adding machines that can store information.
1987	Nevertheless are a great help with credit management in preparing invoices, statements, follow-up letters and a wide range of analysis reports.
1987	For best results from your :.
1987	Although a bit of a nuisance, it is usually cheaper and safer in the long run to run both systems together until you are 101 per cent sure that your new is ready and able to handle what you want it to.
1987	Be clear and precise when explaining what you want your to do.
1987	Our has broken down.
1987	Like people and bank managers, company directors have a language of their own.
1992	Tsutomu Miyazaki enticed the children to his tiny suburban studio apartment, then molested and murdered them, recording the gruesome details of his deeds on the hard-drive of his .
1992	They relax with sexy manga or violent games.
1992	His life revolves around games: he only ventures out of his room in the Tokyo suburb of Kawagoe to acquire more gameboards, the green, maze-like ‘minds’ of arcade games.
1992	I'm more comfortable with than human beings.
1992	Finding the malfunction of a programme or game is thrilling because I'm basically exposing the phoney experts who invented the game in the first place.’
1992	Zero threads his way over the straw mat floor, a high-tech junkyard of old circuit-boards, obsolete monitors, fiveinch disk drives and a spluttering coffee-maker.
1992	As he waits for the to load up the programmes, he scans the rolls of newly arrived faxes.
1992	Flashing on terminals all over Japan, he disseminates his latest data through modem, warning other otaku on the Eye Net network to be on the lookout for some poser named Batman pushing stale info.
1992	Information is the fuel that feeds the otaku 's worshipped dissemination systems — bulletin boards, modems, faxes.
1992	Although he spends most of his waking hours exchanging information with fellow otaku , Zero only knows his tribe through the bulletin board.
1992	There, in the company , he imagines he will find tons of choice titbits such as upcoming record store appearances or release dates for new singles — information that will make him a real idol otaku king when he transmits it over the networks to other idol-loving otaku .
1992	The point for Kojak will not be the relevance of the information, nor the nature of it, but merely that he has it and others don't — that's what makes it valuable and Kojak a stud.
1992	Many otaku make their living in technology-related fields, as software designers, engineers, graphic artists or magazine editors.
1992	The sales potential for technologydriven, ultra-real pornographic and violent experiences via the is so great that engineers are furiously designing software that will satisfy an otaku 's ‘sexual’ needs.
1992	Showing pubic hair is illegal under Japanese obscenity laws, but international networks like CompuServe are already on-line as efficient and low-risk international smuggling routes for sexually explicit pornographic images.
1992	The Osaka Police Department says plans are on the board to increase monitoring of bulletin boards used to distribute and sell illegal pornography.
1992	But the case has ensured that, for the time being,otaku are likely to remain a fringe group perceived by the public as anti-social kooks or, worse, potential serial killers.
1992	As the Christmas battle for the games market reaches critical mass, Sega wheels out its big gun this month with Sonic 2 .
1992	games are taking over our leisure time.
1992	But just at that crucial point, fuel had run out, and my entire crew and I had perished in a piece of sand that will be forever Hackney.
1992	Now, the recent boom in advanced home games has meant that fool boys like me don't sit at home flicking the channels for blood, guts and gore: they recreate it by playing silly silicon war games.
1992	‘The truth is men like gadgets, they like to control their environment,’ points out Dr Margaret Shotton, author of Addiction?and one of the few academics to have taken a serious look at video game culture.
1992	Despite the advent of widespread home technology, a certain old pastime hasn't been killed off.
1992	In fact, if you think about it, masturbation and games go hand in hand.
1992	Like a faster-acting programme, decisions and judgements can speed up, and it could lead to a higher IQ!
1992	Video games are increasingly the starting blocks to full literacy.
1992	Built around a mixture of video footage and information, its potential is enormous.
1992	Very soon the world which we associate with work, word processors and video games will start connecting us to our TV in a relationship we've never had before.
1992	The most worrying thing is not that life was imitating video game imitating life etc; that my perception of reality had been fatally flawed by subliminal messages; or even that my brain was becoming all-too transparent to any two-bob amateur psychiatrist who cared to take note.
1988	Brakes, the on-board , pistons, the electrics, the rear axle, a differential, a loose wheel, a turbo.
1979	In a matter of seconds, his fingerprints had been photographed and checked by against the central memory banks.
1979	For the fifteen minutes it'll take, the will be completely in charge.
1979	He was boxed in by the final stupidity of total bureaucracy, reduced to a mere cypher in a which had been programmed to ignore him.
1979	He was damned if he was going to code the easy way, using the .
1979	The chronometer confirmed his flying time since the aerial refuelling over Omsk, tallying with the covered distance on the on-board .
1979	Fed through the on-board , the data was assembled and correlated in secants.
1979	Vologsky punched out a sequence on the panel, which automatically locked him in to the local frequency.
1979	Automatically, Vologsky completed his pre-flight check, finishing with a pre-programmed check-test on the on-board .
1987	From the day they had all parted, diverging from Ecalpemos out into the world, he had never seen Adam again, but he knew all about him, knew for instance that he had become a partner in a company selling that called itself Verne-Smith-Duchini.
1987	Adam, among his , reflected on the coypu man, whose bill he had later paid, but whom he had never seen again.
1989	The Head Receptionist has recently been showing signs of some disquiet, however: he has invested in a home and has been rather tentatively advocating the advantages of word processing and computerized accounting.
1991	These range from archivist to VDU (visual display unit, or screen) operator.
1991	When they introduced they also taught her typing and keyboard skills.
1991	are now being brought into this profession to perform repetitive tasks.
1991	service engineer — installing and maintaining systems and carrying out repairs when breakdowns occur.
1991	Full-time courses are available, including electronic technology and telecommunications.
1991	In addition, some libraries will be happy to help you with a list of local agencies or specialist agencies, for example those agencies which deal with personnel in London or major cities.
1987	The use of a new  software distribution program calls for a reduction in manpower from three to two in the traffic clerks' office.
1987	Peter, having been dismissed because his work as a traffic clerk has been largely supplanted by use of a program for traffic Mows, vehicle scheduling and so on is eligible for a redundancy payment.
1987	Let us take the example of a debt owed to Swannson-on-Wheels for haulage carried out over a four-week period (throughout the United Kingdom) on behalf of a manufacturer called Computex Ltd.
1987	By letters dated 23 July and 30 July 1985 passing between the plaintiff and the defendant the defendant awarded the plaintiff a haulage contract for the delivery of 40 ZX reader printers at an agreed total charge of £3000 (exclusive of VAT) such deliveries to be made at nine specified locations in the United Kingdom during August 1985 after collection from the defendant's warehouse in Corby, Northamptonshire.
1987	A prime example of this  type of system is run by Freight Systems, part of the National Freight Consortium, Europe's largest transport and distribution company.
1989	This is what you must do: freeze your emotions by concentrating on putting your opponent on to the screen of your mind.
1983	He pinned her down at the CI5 centre, and over the phone briefly explained what he and Doyle needed of her.
1983	Early the next morning, Ray Doyle watched impatiently in the room as information on the rest of the bank job team, which Jack Stone had led, was printed out into George Cowley's waiting hands.
1983	They walked towards the exit from the room.
1983	‘Put it through the anyway.
1983	While Ray Doyle struggled for his life in the Intensive Care  Unit, in the room at CI5 headquarters, George Cowley and Bodie struggled to find the ‘connection’.
1983	‘My mind's not a , Bodie.
1983	In the CI5 room, Bodie reported what he had found out about the girl to Cowley.
1990	programmers, laughing policemen
1991	Its record is entirely respectable, but there is no evidence to suggest that Hanson's skills are appropriate for the really difficult management problems like the rebuilding of the Rover Group or the strengthening of I.C.L. 's position in the world market.
1990	After three dormant years it began humming like a , sucking in information of which it had been starved, until my head began to hurt physically with the effort.
1981	Parents and teachers, like writers of programmes, build certain sorts of information more deeply and irreversibly than others into their systems (children); in the idiom of engineers they hard-programme them.
1991	When salespeople start talking about bytes and mice, beware.
1991	While all this is going on, the salesperson will repeatedly use the customer's Christian name: ‘Now, John, you see that when I do this with the mouse…
1991	If you're striving to write a great novel or to invent a piece of software, the very shyness that makes you avoid social events may allow you more time and motivation to pursue your solitary goals.
1991	They brought in this computerised call system which meant I took all my calls from a [thumps  dashboard ]here.
1968	Nowadays are changing all this.
1968	or no , I should certainly not have been able to handle the mathematics myself but John Cook likes that sort of thing and using the Mercury at Farnborough he was able to map the stresses very close to the tip of a crack which had a finite tip radius.
1968	One of the things which John Cook found in his exercises with the was that, as far as the stress distribution at the actual crack tip region is concerned, it does not very much matter how the load is applied.
1992	Not only is it allowing certain health authorities to waste millions of pounds on systems that don't work, it also allowed the London Ambulance Service to put lives at risk with a system that had not been fully proven in practice.
1992	1 (1) BEAUTY AND THE BEAST: Dazzling Disney animation using the latest graphics.
1992	WHIP-WIELDING Indiana Jones will be appearing shortly in his own action game, Indiana Jones and The Fate of Atlantis, courtesy of Lucas-arts/US Gold, on home .
1992	A survey of 80 insurance companies revealed that a 24-year-old male living in St Albans with three years' no claims bonus would pay £676 to insure a Furio, compared to £1,344 for a Golf and £1,560 for a 105bhp Escort XR3i.
1992	, cereals and a huge amount of raw materials for our industries come from the US.
1992	The price of office equipment such as fax machines, photo copiers, answering services and networks could climb.
1992	Switch on to perils of games
1992	IT FRIGHTENED me to see just how addicted our youngsters have become to games after reading of the 15,000-strong crowd at the Future Entertainment Show at Earls Court.
1992	I don't want my child to turn into an anti-social loner which, as your article pointed out, is one of the perils of spending hour after hour playing games.
1992	There are an awful lot of Luddites out there with dyslexia, including Yours Truly.
1992	Once again a Leading Man of the charming but self-effacing school, Redford plays maverick whizz Martin Bishop, brimming with anti-authority attitude and a secret past, who runs an ad hoc surveillance team full of grumbling, eccentric geniuses for hire.
1992	Amiga players will recall the top-notch Don Bluth animation of the version but also its rather easy and sluggish gameplay.
1992	AFTER successful outings on home and the Mega Drive, Speedball 2 now whizzes on to the Master System.
1992	analyst Margaret Gibson, 22, was among dozens who turned up in Glasgow for free, confidential advice on cellulite and weight from our panel of doctors, dietitians, exercise counsellors and beauty experts.
1992	Dr Nick Walters, exercise physiologist at the University of Westminster, tested Margaret on his Futrex 5000 , which analyses body muscle, fat and water, and found she had a fat proportion of 28 per cent— well above her recommended level of 22 per cent .
1992	The first Savacentre hypermarket opened in 1977 followed by check outs and Homebase in 1981.
1992	Soaring profits from the sale of lower cost hi-fi systems and home helped shares to a peak of 240p in the late 1980s.
1992	Boss Robin Miller says the first issue of games magazine Nintendo Magazine System sold a massive 150,000-plus copies.
1992	Kettering-based consultants Pegasus nose-dived 42p to 86p after a boardroom shake-out.
1992	Pioneering surgeon Dr William Bargar took a scan of the 64-year-old male patient's thigh bone and fed the information into the .
1992	Managers, clerical and staff could be redundant before Christmas, said the Banking, Insurance and Finance Union.
1992	Axe for 999
1992	THE plug has finally been pulled on the London Ambulance Service that may have been responsible for up to 20 deaths last week.
1992	Worried managers made the decision after the crashed for the second time in 10 days.
1992	There was outrage last week when unions revealed people died when the new system crashed on its launch day.
1992	They buy games,’ said Simon Bates.
1992	A SCHOOL technician pirated anything from video nasties to games.
1992	Trading standards officers swooped on his flat in Mossley Hill, Liverpool, in January and seized illegally produced games, videos and equipment for copying.
1992	‘She wanted to be doing things like playing on her home rather than looking after the rest of the family.
1992	THE breakdown of the London ambulance is to be officially investigated, Health Secretary Virginia Bottomley told MPs yesterday.
1992	expert Paddy Spooner has been banned from a country club's quiz nights because he is too clever.
1992	The craze started by the Nintendo character reached fever pitch as more than 15,000 people waited for up to three hours to get into London's Earls Court.
1992	The 100 manufacturers, eager to cash in on the huge Christmas sales of games, rubbed their hands with delight as people went on a recession-busting spending spree.
1992	One fan who didn't mind the crush was student Allan Brett who scooped £10,000 after winning the National Games Championships.
1992	‘I had no idea games were so popular,’ he said.
1992	addicts who spend hours trapped in an electronic fantasy world run the risk of damaging their health, warn psychologists.
1992	‘The 's appeal is that the teenager has control,’ she said.
1992	‘Parents control so much of a 14-year-old's life, the gives the child the opportunity to take control for himself.’
1992	Children from well-off families would rather play games than go outside.
1992	operator Wightman, based in Marylebone, was picked out at an identity parade.
1992	They should put that fight into a 'cos I don't think there will be a fight to compete with what that would have been.’
1992	‘These days everyone uses , and I didn't want to look an idiot if I told people I didn't have a clue how to work one!’
1992	Occupation: Freelance consultant.
1990	The word ‘appears’ is used advisedly because, although have been used to show that the equation does not work for values of n up to several thousand, no one has yet been able to prove for certain that there is no number n greater than 2 for which suitable values of x, y and z cannot be slotted in to produce a valid equation.
1990	LEFT Home were unheard-of only a couple of decades ago; now they have become routine magic'.
1990	It is easy enough to programme a to direct spacecraft towards a long succession of likely stars, to carry out simple tests to establish whether any of the planets of those stars might be capable of sustaining life, and, when appropriate, to dump consignments of spores into the planet's atmosphere.
1990	Interstellar spacecraft, and the to control them, do not come cheap.
1990	When, around 1963, Gerald Hawkins applied a to the various alignments of features present at Stonehenge, finding their astronomical connotations, the storm burst.
1990	Thom could safely be publicly discounted as an eccentric (he was indeed something of an eccentric in many of his personal habits) and a generally irrelevant gadfly, but it was rather more difficult to depict Hawkins's in the same light.
1990	Hawkins required a to ‘decode’ Stonehenge, showing its function as an astronomical observatory
1990	our forebears did not have
1990	He proposed that, instead, we should pepper the skies with controlled probes.
1990	However, we do not expect our to be capable of experiencing emotions, even though emotions are clearly a fundamental part of human intelligence.
1990	It is also a cliche that are incapable of creative thought — in other words, imagination.
1990	BELOW The centre at CERN.
1990	Scientists talk in terms of‘generations’ of , and the most advanced of the machines in operation at the moment are of the fourth generation.
1990	In the early 1980s a government-funded Japanese project was set up to develop a fifth-generation .
1990	In a way, already do.
1990	For example, the simplest desk-top functions through ‘perceiving’ shifting patterns of electrons, something which we cannot do because we are not aware of electrons in everyday life.
1990	RIGHT Black holes are the likely outcome of supernovae such as the one pictured here the brightest one to be discovered since 1604 The image is colourcoded and digitized by ; red represents the brightest parts of the image fading to green, blue white grey and black.
1990	‘This building is full of ,’ said the Thing.
1990	‘There are also many on this plane ,’ said the Thing.
1990	There are many here .’
1990	‘Apparently it's being bossy to the which do all that.
1990	Could be dangerous when you're ten miles high, a mouse going to the lavatory inside  your .
1990	I can only talk to other when they are within my range.
1990	The here know only about airport matters.’
1990	‘I am transmitting an instruction subset to the on the communications satellite ,’ said the Thing.
1990	‘Or, to put it another way…yes, I am turning the satellite into a part of me.
1988	to rule over man,
1993	company Bull is to cut about 3,000 jobs from its 35,000 world-wide workforce.
1993	This traditional curtain-raiser to the horse trials season attracted a star-studded line-up, among them former world champion Ginny Leng, who was one of only two riders to take the direct route at the horse link V rails.
1993	She said she was very impressed by staffing levels at the hospital and that even a local surgery had equipment.
1993	This comes in the wake of a Labour Party survey showing fundholders nationally making profits as high as £100,000 and being given four times the amount non-fundholders are for spending on .
1993	Fundholders and those planning to join the scheme need huge amounts of support from the FHSA in preparing patient lists, accounts, back-up and regular monitoring.
1993	GOVERNMENT health watchdogs are to carry out a survey of women working in microchip factories amid fears they may suffer a higher risk of miscarriage.
1993	The district council's public relations manager Chris Trim said the District Commercial Services was separate from the council and run as a public company, although it used some of the council's facilities such as payroll and .
1993	The police chief filmed the orgies with hidden remote-controlled video cameras and kept a list of his sex partners.
1991	What the programme should do, however, is (a) draw attention to intermediate communication technology which functions independently;(b) foster those technologies which allow control by the people, such as audio and video recordings, community press and community radio, and alternative networks; and (c) contribute towards the development of communication policies based on the principle of people's sovereignty.
1989	The development of , in all their forms, is perhaps our most salient example.
1989	On a recent visit to a day centre, which served both younger disabled and old people, I was told that old people were envious and resentful when learning was introduced for the younger disabled people.
1992	The products of the repression trade may be of two types: equipment for torture, execution of those which result in ‘cruel inhuman or degrading treatment’ such as leg irons; or equipment which can have an every day use, such as and telecommunications (this category also includes items such as tear-gas and hand guns which can be used legitimately for law-enforcement or crime prevention).
1992	The British Section is making a major commitment to a new system, which should both improve efficiency and help us work more flexibly with the national membership.
1990	•The controlled furnace insures repeatability of shape, dimensional accuracy and uniform toughening in the shortest possible cycle times.
1990	The latest financial theory plus high-speed and efficient processing.
1990	Yamaichi's Financial Science is grounded in the most advanced market theories and technology.
1990	IES is an application of the so-called fuzzy process of decision making, which more closely mimics human reasoning.
1990	The many changes required by legislation to contracts and the systems stretched the company's administration capacity in 1988 and 1989.
1990	Check that your six codes on your ‘Ultimate’ Entry Bond match those on your Prize Draw Eligibility Record.
1990	Check that your six codes on your Ultimate Entry Bond match those on your Prize Draw Eligibility Record.
1990	We promise to enter on return of your Entry Bond, all six codes into our Ultimate Prize Draw.
1990	The winning entry will be selected at random by .
1990	Availability of microform, tape, on-line
1990	Why connect if you can't connect applications?
1990	The benefits of networking are obvious in theory — but so frequently disappointing in practice.
1990	A system not designed by a vendor — usually based on a PC Local Area Network, ‘stretched’ somehow to handle larger systems.
1990	NAS connects the minds of people using .
1990	A tower-block of power in miniature (just 12.5″ high and 4.5″ wide) Victor occupies less desk space than any would-be AT system rival.
1990	So when we set out to develop our new Panasonic brand AT compatible personal , we designed it for maximum versatility.
1990	The differences between systems impose artificial limits upon the information that can be accessed.
1990	Tomorrow's OCC systems will combine video, sound, and graphics in a generation of the business world has only dreamed about.
1990	Standard equipment on the V8 includes quattro four-wheel drive with electronic automatic transmission, ABS, cruise-control, climate control air-conditioning, leather upholstery, on-board and six-speaker stereo system.
1990	(WHAT PERSONAL MAGAZINE)
1990	(WHAT PERSONAL MAGAZINE)
1990	(PERSONAL WORLD MAGAZINE)
1990	(WHAT PERSONAL MAGAZINE)
1990	, faxes and photocopiers generate heat waves of their own.
1990	Add to that the vast number of different systems for which WordPerfect is available — IBM PC, Mac, DEC VAX, OS/2, and Unix, with Windows under development, and complete file compatibility between all these environments,— it's hardly surprising that WordPerfect is the most popular word processing software in the world.
1990	printers — OKI is the word
1990	The world's finest PC software for the production of publication-quality scientific charts and graphs…on your own IBM or compatible personal .
1990	From the touch sensitive panel you can pre-set your sauna to automatically start the next day, and you can choose from a selection of five climate temperatures, you also have the added luxury of an AM/FM radio to listen to, there's a digital clock and heater and there's container system to add fresh herbs for richer and more exciting steam.
1990	We have the design engineering skills — and the aided drawing resources — to produce the optimum configurations for any size and shape of roof.
1990	RANDOM ACCESS AIDED DESIGN
1990	Your members' vouchers include a free test of your clubs at any of the Petron Swing Analysis Centres situated around Britain.
1990	And where every body panel is precisely positioned according to a model consisting of 12,000 reference points.
1990	A self-checking sequence immediately verifies that all systems are working.
1990	If you want to meet someone with the same hopes, ambitions and interests as yourself, and are simply not meeting them socially or at work, Dateline, the largest, longest established and most successful dating agency in the world, can open up a whole new circle of people; interesting, suitable people who could be living very close to you, people who you might never meet without Dateline's help.
1990	If you want to meet someone with the same hopes, ambitions and interest as yourself, and are simply not meeting them socially or at work, Dateline, the largest longest established and most successful dating agency in the world combines personal service with the speed and efficiency of modern technology to open up a whole new circle of compatible people for you; interesting, suitable people who could be living very close, people who you might never meet without Dateline's help.
1990	It assumes no previous technical knowledge of communications or specialist mathematical skills.
1990	Geoff Simmons, PA & Telecomms.
1990	•and Communications
1990	crime loses UK companies an estimated £2.5 billion per annum.
1990	Security is necessary if the data on a has any value at all, but the level of security required can range from simply making backups, all the way to sophisticated access control, encryption, virus prevention and hacking control.
1990	security staff
1990	‘The average Security Manager has been in his job for about 10 months.
1990	‘But the vendor told me that it would stop anyone getting access to the !’
1990	Discuss the important standards which influence the rest of the industry.
1990	— The alternatives in the mid-range — System/36 — The AS/400 family — OSF and UI organisations — RISC architecture — UNIX workstations and servers (RS/6000)— Series/1 mini-computer — The 4700 Finance System — System/88 Fault Tolerant — 4680 Point-of-Sale System (EPOS)
1990	The industry is dominated by the products and standards of one supplier — IBM.
1990	Howard has 20 years experience in the industry both within user departments and supplier organisations.
1990	Howard also has long experience of developing and presenting courses and training programmes to professionals, managers and users.
1990	When the University of Rome wanted to give its students and faculty access to their mainframe , they called upon Bell Atlantic's Eurotech to develop a customised system to meet their goals.
1990	With Sorbus, a and data equipment maintenance company.
1990	This means the account client, calling on his ex-directory priority line, is now linked to a cab in his area by and the taxi despatched to pick-up in seconds.
1990	Installing can increase personal productivity.
1990	Networking can increase efficiency for organisations.
1990	It connects applications, merges reports, builds pictures, develops concepts.
1990	It's designed to operate across multiple systems and to integrate anything from personal to mainframes.
1990	Which means getting the most out of the investment you've already made, and dramatically enhancing the value of your future investments.
1990	Solving today's business problems often means working with several vendors.
1990	These, or a hundred other weaknesses or incompatibilities in systems, create information bottlenecks at crucial times.
1990	Existing systems can be made to fulfil their true role as time-saving management tools in the pursuit of competitive advantage.
1990	The lights are on, lifts are working, are calculating and people are at work in hospitals.
1990	COMPUTERCRAFT is the leading specialist in providing consultancy, training, support and programming to the housing, charity and voluntary sectors.
1990	Our success is based on making an organisation's use of new or existing systems efficient and effective.
1990	For an human approach to your needs, call us.
1990	To achieve this, we believe in the personal touch, as well as using technology.
1991	The thematic maps were generated, using information brought together from a number of databases and processed through a Geographic Information System with methods that were specially developed during the project.
1991	software for interactive display and interpretation of data continues to be developed, and geological mapping projects have been supported.
1991	LIBERTAS software for full management of the library's resources was also introduced, and the first modules, dealing with catalogues, were completed they make possible fast retrieval of information on published literature.
1991	Right This interpretation of a wireline log of a borehole in Indonesia was made by means of GS software funded by ODA.
1991	analysis of the regional gravity and aeromagnetic data has confirmed the presence of a major basement structure beneath the Lower Palaeozoic basin sediments.
1991	The applied maps were generated and then colour printed, using information from a number of databases processed through a Geographic Information System New methods were developed during the project to enable these various databases, which included digitised geological linework and mine plans, raster-scanned topography and computer-coded borehole and geotechnical data, to be used in this way.
1991	Through provision of databases, hardware, software and training, the new database section has enabled many geologists to use to assist them in their work.
1991	These studies are underpinned by continuing improvements in the operation of the geophysical databases and by further developments in software for interactive display and interpretation of data.
1991	The facilities available to users of the Vax at Keyworth have been expanded, and their implementation on the Murchison House Vax is in progress.
1991	As well as an index of data, BGS holds many sample analyses on under the Oracle database-management system.
1991	Data transmission is handled by a dedicated IBM-PC that telephones each observatory every three hours, seven days a week, retrieving and transferring the latest data to the BGS Vax at Murchison House, Edinburgh.
1991	In another Kontron application, a modal-analysis grid created by IBAS programming is superimposed on an optical image of biotite granite above right (field of view 4 × 4 millimetres) to allow a preconfigured grey-level classification below right to be overridden by the user where necessary, thereby combining the advantages of expert interpretation with the speed of the .
1991	We have a good understanding of inorganic complexation, and sophisticated models have been developed to calculate the 'speciation' of metals in groundwaters.
1991	For these reasons reactions between a number of metals and humic acids extracted from groundwater from different sites in the UK are being studied by a range of analytical and radiochemical techniques and attempts are being made to incorporate the findings into models.
1991	The software PRECIP has been developed to predict chemical reaction accompanying fluid flow in geological systems.
1991	software has been developed to link the rate of water-rock reactions with changes in fluid flow.
1991	modelling of the system has aided the assessment of changes in porosity and fracture widths in the repository rock over 10 000 years as a result of reaction with cementitious porefluids.
1991	Training was given to geophysicists in Interactive Surface Mapping (ISM) on the newly installed VAX mainframe and in gravity and magnetic modelling techniques on personal .
1991	Chemical analysis and reanalysis and preparation of databases continued, and plotting software for use on personal was developed.Two atomic absorption spectrophotometers were rebuilt, and a BGS chemist commissioned the new DMR Fire Assay Laboratory and conducted a workshop on fire assaying during July.
1991	Various integration and processing techniques have been demonstrated on portable , ideal for developing countries, and digitising all the available information is in hand.
1991	It arose from the digitisation of archived paper records of previous international surveys, so that the information could be stored on and made accessible to modern techniques of data retrieval, image analysis and interpretation.
1991	In the course of studies of saline intrusion near wells and in regional aquifers, a model developed to simulate scavenger well pumping in Pakistan agrees well with field observations.
1991	Such motivations took students to colleges throughout the world to learn military science, railway engineering, medicine, etc., at the beginning of the century just as contemporary liuxuesheng (overseas students) learn about and technology at American universities.
1991	By selling various items from to eggs, offering consultative services and home tutoring, young intellectuals showed their ingenuity and flexibility in trying to improve their economic situation.
1991	The Neurocranker — an elite class competition climber with a body and brain augmented by medical and technology — has fallen to his death from a competition climbing wall 5,000 metres above Tokyo.
1991	Bolt Head, the gangster who financed and masterminded both the Robocranker project and the generated hologram, meets the Robocranker after his defeat and offers him a new body in return for operating one of his machines…
1991	He pressed a button and a vivid, writhing, three dimensional graphic blossomed forth.
1991	The monkey was wired up to a small terminal and was punching away with its leathery fingers at buttons on the keyboard in front of it.
1991	The images generated were fed directly into other, more powerful , analysed by various marketing experts and filed away for use in the development of Cybercranker II — next in the line of arcade games to be pioneered by the Bolt Head Corporation.
1991	Your instructions are on the — press any key to start.’
1991	This meeting had taken place about two weeks ago; two weeks of frustration and boredom rubbing away at the monkey's sanity, its only hope to keep concentrating; to put all its energy into finishing the task the had set for it; another four, maybe five hours of programming.
1991	The businessman was staring in angry disbelief at the glittering graphic that hung on the screen before him.
1991	Ed and a group of kids he hadn't seen before were all slumped around a slick looking games console — all plugged into the machine via wires and electrodes.
1992	Is it correct — or could you be the victim of a hiccup?
1992	Do the same for children's home , ghetto blasters and mains-powered toys in bedrooms.
1991	Indeed, if this metaprogram view has any substance to it then it follows that the true potential of hypertext will only be apparent when scientists have discovered much more about the fundamental nature of programs and programming.
1991	So far, hypertext, and EP generally, have revealed all the same intriguing but infuriating problems encountered in the wider arena of science.
1991	Nonetheless, just as scientists have had to solve the problem of mapping abstract functional languages onto unyielding and unhelpful hardware, so also will the EP community have to grapple with the difficulties of ‘link-editing’ and presenting suitable subsets of some highly abstract hypertext on conventional devices (including plain paper!).
1991	One suspects that most scientists would like to believe that elegant data structures for organising all forms of information, together with powerful formalisms for manipulating and reasoning about it, have always pre-existed in some sense, and were just waiting to be discovered.
1991	Whatever the final verdict may be, EP has shown itself, yet again, to be more than just another area of applied science.
1992	Advertising & Promotion European Studies III Foreign Language III Contemporary Literature Language III Modernism Business Enterprise Electives Magazine Journalism (5 to be chosen)Quality Control Systems Printability Technology Developments in Finishing Colour Reproduction in Graphics Electronic Film Separation Electronic Colour Image Assembly Graphics for Screen Media AWBL III The Past of Publishing
1992	The first is whether it is possible to agree upon a generic curriculum, based on a set of headings or topics, which may be treated quite differently by those in different disciplines (e.g. typographers, scientists).
1992	Brailsford and Beach adopt a general view, regarding electronic publishing as the use of science and electronics to present information.
1992	Although we can specify types of people, e.g. scientists, typographers, editors, publishers, and more generally scientists versus humanists, much of the current technology breaks down these specializations.
1992	Within this framework, a typographer can learn about various stages in the publishing chain, about the hardware and software components of document preparation systems, whilst a scientist may appreciate aspects of design through evaluating design tools.
1992	The course deals with the communication of messages which can require logical thought, creative talent, organizational skills, etc. and draws upon various disciplines, such as history of art, linguistics, psychology, science.
1992	promote efficient use of as design tools
1992	examine current and past systems within the context of various industries, such as the publishing industry, the industry and the entertainment industry
1992	The HyperCard is based on the above outline of document preparation systems, with tutorials corresponding to each of the third level of headings (e.g. the industry, publishing industry, hardware, software).
1992	We are a long way from the time where a could pass a reasonable judgement on the quality of an electronic document.
1992	The students were partly scientists and partly students with widely varying backgrounds who were taking a ‘conversion course’ to learn computing.
1992	The work was done, as it happens, on Sun and DEC workstations running UNIX, but, as far as this paper is concerned, could have been done on any networked .
1992	When looking at individual assessments it is valuable to have available the whole armoury of tools provided by the , in order to satisfy the marker's ad hoc needs for further information.
1992	Teaching electronic publishing to scientists
1992	This paper discusses some of the issues involved in teaching electronic publishing to undergraduates specializing in science.
1992	KEYWORDS scientists Electronic publishing Principles Design
1992	An electronic publishing course for undergraduate scientists needs to cover a significantly wider range of topics.
1992	science undergraduates are in an ideal position to appreciate the possibilities of these advances, and to understand some of the more general technical problems associated with hypermedia.
1992	The sections below discuss the goals of undergraduate electronic publishing courses, and attempt to show how their content can be tailored to exploit the background and knowledge of science students.
1992	We have been teaching electronic publishing to undergraduate students for some ten years now, and to science undergraduates for six years.
1992	Even for design, however, the skills of the scientists can be exploited in translating designs into the increasingly complex notations used by electronic publishing systems, and in understanding how the limitations and advantages of current and future technologies can affect design.
1992	This is an illustration of the well-known problem of scientists becoming so enthralled with their own inventions that they lose sight of the needs of users.
1992	They share the fact that they have all been of limited duration but, within that framework, one has been concerned with local skills training, four have involved modules contained within honours degree courses (Typography and Graphic Communication, Library Science, Publishing and Science respectively) and one has been at postgraduate level.
1992	Initially this could be a minor subject in a combined studies degree (Science and EP or Library Science and EP) but this is likely to be only a short step before the full degree course materializes.
1992	If, for example, the module were for Science students then there would be a concentration on text processing, database publishing and communications.
1992	Obvious candidates for EP modules are degrees in Writing and Publishing, Publishing, Information Science, Typography and Graphic Communication and Science.
1992	Middlesex University offers taught master's courses in Animation and Computing in Design, and is proposing Design for Interactive Media.
1992	It is based on a number of fundamental technologies, such as hardware developments, software engineering (taken to include all aspects of programming and software development), telecommunications, graphics, human–computer interaction and information retrieval.
1992	Graphics — characteristics and potential;
1992	Such a course would operate for one week full-time (half module), it would assume that the students are fully conversant with the principles of word processing and have the skills (i.e., disc and file handling, security, etc.) needed to operate a personal effectively.
1992	No knowledge of science or of the printing industry would be assumed.
1992	The author would welcome responses from teams developing courses in EP, particularly in North America, with a view to publishing a much more elaborate framework (akin to that available for Science), including the items which have been omitted this time.
1992	writing tools should be tuned to certain users and tasks.
1992	For example, to place the concept ‘hypertext’ in a semantic net, one might begin by saying that it contains documents, runs on , and serves users.
1992	The link types are ‘contains’, ‘runs on’, and ‘serves’; the nodes are ‘hypertext’, ‘documents’, ‘’, and ‘users’(see Figure 1).
1992	A program was developed to read a book (called Machine Learning: Expert Systems and Information Retrieval ), exploit the markup language (the Unix Document Workbench), and translate the book into a relational database management system (SQL/DS).
1992	For one, the researcher did not have Roget's on-line and needed to manually enter into the the relevant relations from Roget's .
1992	For another, the programs which analyze semantic nets for patterns of inheritance were not usable, while this version of the semantic net was being developed.
1992	Detecting patterns in a large, complex semantic net is difficult to do without the aid of programs.
1992	In the representation of the extended semantic net in the a caption attribute is added.
1992	For instance, any such book might meaningfully have sections on ‘Principles’ and ‘Systems’and the ‘Principles’section might be decomposed into subsections on ‘Principles’and on ‘Human Principles’.
1992	While the is an obvious tool for handling and organizing large quantities of data in the hyper-medium, straight-forward procedural methods cannot cope with the complexity of the organization.
1992	Present hyper-text systems concentrate on the human — interface and rely on semi-automated or manual techniques to represent links between one document and another.
1992	Progress in this area is currently being achieved by very active research in the area of Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW).
1992	If you're wondering, the FX are just Tron crossed with 2001 and a dash of fractal soup
1992	Instead, by the age of 15, he was wasting his money endlessly playing games, until one day he discovered the Yellow Magic Orchestra, and then Kraftwerk, and then Asian music and various ethnic musics (‘Sounded like techno to me,’ he mutters).
1992	It sits in their work area: an exercise bike, keyboards and twin turntables, and a left plugged in to produce fractal swirls.
1992	This show is a kind of extension of club events I did in LA a few years back which used graphics, big projections, dance music and crowds.
1992	In addition artists Karl Sims, Rebecca Allen and Julia Hayward have provided animated speculations about the digital landscapes of the future which fill up the latter part of the show.
1992	With the main market for games (pre-adolescent boys) reaching saturation point, the big companies are casting around for ways to keep those sales figures healthy.
1992	Alternatively David Blair's WAX uses low-budget tech and digital FX to mix original film and animation, found footage and a zoned-out voiceover, as it follows a weapons industry worker who, via a television implanted in his head by bees, visits the land of the dead before turning into a smart bomb in Iraq.
1991	Yet in casual conversation with the wife of a working colleague, Jean discovers that-Peter is just the same at the business where he now works as a systems manager.
1991	The cardinal rule in the world according to Peter, is: don't trust new programs any further than you can throw  them.
1991	However, there was no system to manage the exercise — when the nav wanted a position line or fix he pre-warned the instructor, who sat the other side of the ‘cockpit’ facia, and at the appropriate time a piece of paper was pushed through the wall with the details scrawled upon it!
1992	COLOURMATCH
1992	Cover Girl have come up with a to help you select the most flattering shade of make-up.
1992	Within a matter of moments, the will indicate which of the three shade-groups you suit, from Warm to Cool to Neutral, and you can choose your products from the corresponding colour sections on display.
1992	My stay here is up in May 1992 and I am planning to get my master's degree in Knitwear/Textile design with emphasis on assisted design and manufacture.
1992	In many instances this does not matter at all, because the full screen, ungridded printout will serve more than adequately as a reminder of the actual design which is stored in the Me \ directory memory.
1992	Once you have the program up and running on your , you will be presented with a MAIN MENU screen.
1992	Version 5 however, is expected to include a facility to ‘knit from the screen’, so if your and knitting machine are in the same room, you may find this more convenient than printing on to paper.
1992	A very useful feature of the program is that you can also print out what is on the screen at any time,(commonly known as a ‘screen dump’ because the literally ‘dumps’the contents of the screen to the printer.)
1992	Designaknit 4 is suitable for any IBM or compatible with an EGA or VGA colour monitor running DOS version 2 or later.
1992	If you happen to own or have access to an Acorn A5000 , then you can run Designaknit providing you have at least 2 megabytes of RAM and version 1.7 of the PC Emulator.
1992	This was in the early days of the personal when graphics software was scarce.
1992	Water colours and oil paints took over, but now he prefers programs as a creative outlet.
1992	‘A program is a thought which has become objectified into a sequence of instructions.
1992	When one person has in their mind the whole range of the project from initial conception through data analysis and system design to sitting at the and typing the program lines into the , it's not only more efficient: the person is creating in freedom like an artist and is involved in the act of creation at a deeper level and as a result enjoys the whole thing.
1992	However, those addicted to would probably enjoy the exercise.
1992	Although I did not get this trouble with my machines, we used to suffer badly when we first got our .
1992	We get our supplies from our dealer, so you could try there or a good office stationer.
1992	I suggest that she does as I have done, pops down to her local shop and purchases an anti-static bracelet and strap.
1992	It's a small stretchy band, normally worn on the wrist, with a single wire of about six feet and a crocodile clip which you attach to a metal part of your office, that is, desk or radiator but not the .
1992	Anyone who complains that they are convinced they programmed their machine correctly but it won't read, should try this solution too, as static electricity can cause chips to misread instructions and if it's bad enough, static electricity can destroy data held on disc.
1992	But the typed in masculine names — is this one in on the act as well?
1992	As I was typing this on the (my VDU is a television set), the screen went odd with flashing lines and all the words missing.
1992	Having given me a fright, it put itself right again, so now I know that the is in the charmed circle as well.
1992	The Mini Vac is very reasonably priced at £10.95 to include p&p and is ideal for cleaning dust and dirt off knitting machines as well as a variety of home and office equipment including typewriters, keyboards, video recorders, answering machines, stereos and so on.
1992	But before we do, there are one or two more things that the Creation 6 program can do for us regarding visualising the actual knitted fabric and seeing how the design is treated by the console on receiving the information.
1992	Recently the big news has all been about the latest electronic machines and programs for them.
1992	A Brother 950i with ribber and Clwyd Technics software for design are used in the workshop.
1992	At the end of last year, in the Embroidery Magazine, Valerie Campbell-Harding invited professional people interested in forming a Textile Design Group to contact her.
1992	As I switched on the television prior to using is as the screen to write this article, a lady was interviewing the country's strongest man.
1992	Pictures that have been created within a paint package, scanner or digitiser can be imported into DesignaKnit and converted to stitch patterns.
1992	This is not really a problem because PCX is one of the standard graphics file saving formats offered by most of the popular paint programs.
1992	This option is only available if you have purchased the special cable that links the to an electronic knitting machine.
1992	A separate cable can also be purchased to link the to the Brother PPD.
1992	This enables you to transfer stitch patterns between the and the PPD, including patterns from the Stitch Patterns Extra Cartridge.
1992	THE FORM PROGRAM AND FORM PROGRAM
1992	As we know, the FORM, or pattern shaping, is an integral part of the Electronic E-6000, but it has been around on Passap System machines as the Form Program for ten years or so, and to many knitters it is still surrounded by mystery and suspicion.
1992	The information is all contained in the columns of figures, but the knitting instructions appear on your console, or Form display, rather than having to be written out in the printed pattern.
1992	There are also the two very useful little books, Form I and Form II, each containing programs from the very smallest size 48 cm chest, to the largest 132 cm chest.
1992	Form I programs are all for  set-in sleeve garments and Form II for raglan garments.
1992	As well as all the programs that appear in the above publications, what you may also do is use the programs that appear for the Singer System machine version of the Form , called the Knitting or Digiform .
1992	This expands the availability of shapes and patterns even further, because the basic Form and its programs are one and the same thing for both makes of machine — Passap System and Singer System.
1992	However, those addicted to would probably enjoy the experience.
1990	Then Ulzana, the Apple Apache in his Gucci Ghost Shirt, would-be heir to the eagle-feathers, graduated from Berkeley, and set up a software firm.
1990	The interface was secretly operational, sorting through the Mormons' old listings of everybody who had ever left a record of his or her life on earth.
1990	The inboard flashed stats at him.
1990	The hummed, as the smart bullets picked their targets.
1990	The only way in now was through the palm-recognition slab, and that was programmed only to reverse the lock-down upon the authority of executive-level Holderness-Manolo personnel.
1990	‘And in addition to those rewards, Brunt, we know that anyone coming forward with information leading to the apprehension or termination of Jessamyn Bonney will be entitled to one hundred thousand dollars’ worth of bio-improvements supervised by Dr Zarathustra himself, a duplex apartment in the PZ of your choice, a fully-guaranteed and pirate-protected Caribbean cruise, this complete household hook-up and two thousand hours net-time on the interface of your choice, one of our new range of Venus-Adonis model companions, and a further one hundred thousand dollars in the currency or negotiable bond of your choice.
1992	A error knocked out the system for the second time in a month.
1992	The winners will be chosen at random by our .
1992	Called ‘Fraudwatch’ it uses a ‘thinking’to detect unusual spending patterns.
1992	A fault put the line out of action temporarily, but it is now up and running again.
1992	A company recently sponsored a contest posing the question: ‘If you had the chance to send one message into deep space, what wisdom or important information would you share?’
1992	The winners will be chosen at random by our .
1992	The winners will be chosen at random by our .
1992	The winners will be chosen at random by our .
1992	Electronics millionaire Alan Sugar, who made a fortune selling hi-fis and at prices even the Japanese could not match, is planning to buy back his Amstrad company from investors.
1992	The winners will be chosen at random by our .
1992	A NEW keyboard art-form — Smileys — has emerged.
1992	Now the NASA experts have recorded an average cooling of 0.2C already and their model predicts that will increase to 0.5C by the end of the year.
1992	Not for him the satellites, and massive back-up team the Michael Fishes, Suzanne Charltons and Alex Hills of TV depend upon for their forecasts.
1992	THIS brings together all your favourite WWF merchandise…the latest in T-shirts, footwear, action figures, software, posters — and much, much more.
1992	Startled staff dived for cover as the liquid dung splashed against outside walls, whizzed through windows and splattered on to desks, chairs, and carpets.
1992	They are believed to have ‘won’ up to £60,000 by fooling in general knowledge phone games.
1992	believed their silences were ‘no’ answers — right half the time.
1992	A £1,000 talking stolen from an electronics firm in Milton Keynes, Bucks, only understands Japanese.
1992	A TOTALLY pointless crime happened last week in Milton Keynes when office thieves made off with a — that speaks only Japanese!
1992	TUC research, using the Treasury's own model, shows that a £2 billion increase in public spending would cut Britain's 2,700,000 jobless total by over 100,000.
1992	Tycoon Alan Sugar — whose Amstrad firm was a success of the booming 80s — slammed the Tories for wanting to slash inflation at all cost.
1992	A has sent bills for 0.00p to Severn-Trent water users in the Midlands — threatening to sue if they don't pay up.
1992	There are also vacancies for technicians, secretaries, and mechanics.
1992	He decided to carry out a check on Model.
1992	Foreign-made cars, equipment, clothes, wine, fitted kitchens, videos, TVs and radios are all set to cost more.
1992	They followed the release of new pictures of Ben, which experts had ‘aged’ by to give an impression of what the tot must look like now.
1992	His bosses at Datronech Ltd, Aldershot, Hants, insist that any other salesmen who damage their expensive VWs will get the same treatment for a month.
1992	Timeshare salesman Thomas Kerr, 21, from Loughton, Essex, was jailed for 18 months at Snaresbrook Crown Court when he also admitted burglary and stealing £10,000 worth of equipment.
1992	A CONFUSED gave a weary couple a rude awakening at one o'clock every morning.
1992	But someone forgot to tell the .
1992	Burglars struck at the offices of the world-famous best-selling annual and carried off and its priceless data discs.
1992	‘Visits by our officers can result either from the use of detector vans or follow-ups from records of who has and who doesn't have a TV licence.’
1992	buff Steven has been jobhunting since graduating from London's Imperial College four years ago.
1992	Now he writes software for the National Blind League but needs a proper job.
1988	I've practically got a inside my head.
1992	YOU'VE read all about Hand Held games.
1992	ENTERTAINMENT World run one of the biggest games clubs in the country.
1992	Then send your entries on a postcard along with your name and address to: Games Contest, Daily Mirror, E.W.C. Ltd, High Street, Ramsgate, Kent, CT11 9RH.
1992	Entertainment World run one of the biggest games clubs.
1992	Then send your entries on a postcard along with your name and address to: Games Contest, Daily Mirror, E.W.C. Ltd, High Street, Ramsgate, Kent, CT11 9RH.
1992	Back in England, BA union officials who tried to get more information about who was on board found records of the passenger list had disappeared.
1992	Bank charges soared and flash new were introduced to scan accounts and make sure a chance to charge is never missed.
1992	KRAYS ARE A DISGRACE!
1992	IT'S disgraceful that jailed gangsters Reg and Ronnie Kray have been allowed to commission a kids' game based on their Sixties reign of terror.
1992	SOMETHING good has come out of the NatWest Access system foul-up which left customers with muddled statements.
1992	Millionaire tycoon Alan Sugar, a lifelong Spurs fan, bought a 48 per cent stake in the club earlier this year.
1992	The game, which features two crazy New York plumbers called The Mario Brothers, has already generated £330 million in sales and merchandising.
1992	We made a cash donation of £200,000, fitted 16 pledging sites with nearly 2,000 lines at our expense, and installed 2,000 miles of circuits to drive the scoreboards.
1992	We asked Ilkeston Consumer Co-op — it may surprise you, but they are the biggest single travel agency in Britain — for their best buys among the late offers revealed by their .
1992	Our winner will be chosen at random by our .
1992	The winner will be chosen at random by our .
1992	Walking down the aisle would have been too tame for Timothy, a carnival gaming agent from Florida, and Nony Tedjakasume, a analyst from Jakarta, Indonesia.
1992	YOU'VE READ THE BOOK, SEEN THE MOVIE, NOW PLAY THE GAME!
1992	JAILED gangsters Reg and Ronnie Kray are all set to rule the East End again — in a kids' game.
1992	The £1 million engine vanished on July 28 after being tracked by a BR at Redhill, Surrey.
1992	He went through hundreds of pounds of his mother's money in a spending spree, buying friends extravagant gifts like games and going to amusement arcades.
1992	Other costs included video and hardware to demonstrate to the jury complicated financial manoeuvres.
1992	Big Brother will log the date and length of calls with a new £250,000 system.
1992	A blip could have messed up the statements of millions of credit card customers, it was revealed last night.
1992	‘They said his name was Simon so I punched it into the and went through the alphabet for burglars.
1992	Their devastated father Garry — a company executive who left England for a new life in Ireland 20 years ago -said: ‘I am so numb at the loss of my two beautiful children.
1992	Officials said every couple had been personally matched by Moon using photos and a .
1993	There's a common feeling now, only the tools are and the further you go the more serious that feeling seems to get.’
1993	Because the people who run those things are 40-year-old ex-rockers driving Porsches around, they feel threatened that people can make music with that other people like.
1993	‘We figured that we could bring in artists from the '90s to interpret Hendrix using the technology that was only a dream in the '60s,’ explains Storey.
1993	The last few months alone have seen us tripping over stranger and stranger Techno records born of game consoles and febrile imaginations, wave after seemingly inexhaustible wave of new rap, the grimy grungy hordes of post-Nirvana American noiseniks and the endless fireworks let off by our homegrown rock scene.
1993	Behind him is a desk on which an Apple Mac blinks silently.
1993	ARRIVED AT Techno Towers to discover that had not yet been invented.
1991	The group are also buffs on a mission to not only push out musical frontiers but combine the whole thing into a total multi-media package.
1991	generation games with The Black Dog
1991	In an arena where music is married to a mixing desk, committed to and performed through basic PAs, Whyte still toil with bass and drums.
1991	They also have access to up-to-date information through a database.
1992	The subject of the research is the automatic recognition of handwriting by .
1992	In the future it is hoped that there will be a new type of interface which should mimic the conventional pen and paper interface.
1992	The continuously falling price and increasing power of desk-top has led to their widespread availability and use.
1992	Moreover, the introduction of notepad style will necessitate non-keyboard input.
1992	Two natural modes of communicating with are via spoken and handwritten input.
1992	For such input to be possible, the speech or handwritten data must be ‘recognised’ by the and translated into digital text representation (such as ASCII characters).
1992	Present systems for the input of text into a mainly use keyboards.
1992	In the future it is envisaged that all three methods will be available as alternative input techniques for , perhaps including shorthand as a fourth.
1992	Handwritten data is input to a via an electronic tablet which accurately captures x, y coordinate information of pen-tip movement.
1992	Tablets are now much more accurate than before, and are more compact and powerful.
1992	Combined with better recognition algorithms we now see the advent of the pen-based or ‘notepad’ .
1992	This follows naturally from small ‘laptop’ personal which are still keyboard-based.
1992	In contrast, off-line handwriting recognition is performed after the writing is completed, and involves aspects of vision via an optical scanner to convert the image of the writing into a bit pattern.
1992	He goes on to say that ‘lexically based research is growing rapidly.
1992	Such devices combine a tablet with a screen, usually as an LCD display, and the pens are untethered.
1992	With recent advances in technology, even personal now have much increased memory capacity, so a lexical look-up technique which uses a large vocabulary (say, anything over 20,000 words) is now feasible.
1992	The chosen lexicon or word list must be represented in memory, but there are numerous methods which could be employed to do this, in order that it can easily be searched.
1992	In this way, when the number of allowable strings or phrases is high, a few most likely can be stored — it was found that if all allowable phrases with long sequences were stored, there was insufficient memory on the !
1992	The 26-way tree structure gave very fast search times, but memory requirements were almost unmanageable especially if the process was to be attempted on a small personal .
1992	For our system the trie structure (section 3.2.3.3) was most appropriate given the need for grammatical, morphological and semantic information in further stages of the script recognition process (see chapter 4 for further details), however the reduced-memory tree (section 3.3.1) also gives fast search times and reasonable memory requirements, especially for experimental purposes with different word lists and test data on a limited memory .
1992	With the increase in word and text processing systems, programs which check and correct spelling have become more and more common (see Peterson, 1980 for a review).
1992	There are no ‘best’ methods with hashing, there are always trade-offs to be considered between storage space and search times.
1992	The automatic recognition of handwriting is necessary as a natural mode of communication with , and appears to be appropriate for a number of applications.
1992	For our system the trie structure (section 3.2.3.3) was most appropriate given the need for grammatical, morphological and semantic information in further stages of the script recognition process, however the reduced-memory tree (section 3.3.1) also gives fast search times and reasonable memory requirements, especially for experimental purposes with different word lists and test data on a limited memory .
1992	The advent of notepad brings many new opportunities for applications suitable to this new form of .
1992	Millions of people work away from their desks, so the situations where such a may be appropriate are widespread.
1992	Notepad are already on trial in a hospital accident and emergency unit, and doctors and dentists surgeries are other potential markets.
1992	It should be noted however, that many applications may not require recognition of pen input.
1992	Recognition and associated techniques are also applicable to standard of all forms, mainframes, workstations and personal , especially in office systems.
1992	To provide a user-friendly environment based upon the latest Human Interface techniques, the script recognition system could incorporate an interactive gesture-based front-end (Welbourn and Whitrow, 1989; Wilson and Whitrow, forthcoming).
1987	However, by the early 1980s, the sales outlets had become linked to the head office via networks.
1989	Audio-visual materials, cassettes and videotapes, and access to based learning will simplify a lot of what used to be dull and repetitive work.
1988	They tried Walter Runciman of the Child Poverty Action Group and Peter Hughes of Logica, the company.
1988	Files on the paper were being opened in cuttings libraries and (behind the scenes) on executive .
1988	On NoS they were being treated to the miracle of new technology, bypassing the National Graphical Association compositors who, before the age of ‘direct entry’ , retyped the articles on Linotype hot metal machines after the subs had marked them up in pencil.
1988	Sutton was later going to have to cope with marrying up this formula to the new direct-entry system, which was being sorted out by systems editor Eugenie Verney, a sub-editor made redundant from the Daily Express in Manchester, who had previously worked on the Guardian .
1988	She had already fallen out with Sutton, who regarded with unconcealed loathing.
1989	Yet the first crude tools our ancestors made — from flakes of rock, bits of timber and other natural materials around them — were the precursors of the , turbines, aeroplanes and all the other pieces of machinery essential to the modern world.
1992	Ex-alignment maps are vital to good railway understanding while on the walk and I really can't understand in these days of easily accomplished and cheap graphic why Martin plumped for his own blobbing pen.
1990	She sat up in her web, pulled the keyboard to her and roused the , keeping it mute.
1990	‘They have this little brain thing you plug in the , that runs the power, the engines, the john, everything.
1992	Jeremy Bates began his single minded quest for world points with ruthless discipline, and as the highest ranked player on the circuit, had to deal with the ensuing pressure to win every match.
1992	Wilkinson and Bates, with equal determination to achieve as many points as possible, won through to face each other in the first of two finals encounters.
1992	The Masters event in Eastbourne brought together the top 24 from the circuit (determined by how many circuit points they had accumulated) as competition intensified and world points were not to be contested.
1992	Could it be that they do not have the stomach for the hard grind which seems to be necessary to pick up those all important points?
1992	With a judgement of timescales allowed, success or failure could be easily monitored, now that there are both junior and senior international ranking lists.
1992	That hard work has paid dividends for Washington, who has already scored notable career wins over Connors, Chang, Cherkasov, Wheaton and Lendl, and who claimed his first ever senior title in Memphis in February, a win which moved him from 38 to 23 on the IBM/ATP , his highest ever showing.
1991	I could wish for nothing more (unless, of course, his daughter followed, bearing a Toshiba lap-top , and skipped down the hill to school).
1991	By having the individual numbers logged at a central , it is then possible to track down the dog's owner without difficulty.
1991	Haiti Info is published every two weeks by the Haitian Information Bureau and is available by mail, fax and also electronically via .
1991	He highlighted the advances achieved in visual data available on home , which make reading skills redundant.
1992	GIANNIA TSORTSOS: a 20-year-old student of science from Athens, he has been in prison since September 1991 for refusing on grounds of conscience to perform military service.
1990	The School is particularly interested in someone with a quantitative or orientation, though applications from those with alternative specialisms are equally welcome.
1990	Experience in the use of modelling is highly desirable and a high degree of numeracy is essential.
1990	Using sophisticated modelling techniques (therefore previous experience in this area is essential), you will be involved in both medium and long term projects, together with evaluating new contracts.
1990	Candidates should be conversant with international economic and financial issues and have practical experience using personal .
1990	R&H is a large Danish consultancy group employing some 1150 staff including agronomists, economists, engineers, sociologists and specialists.
1990	Experience and knowledge of near infrared spectrophotometry, , gc-ms, and other spectrophotometric techniques would be an advantage.
1990	You should have a PhD, awarded not more than 3 years ago, in the field of science, mathematics or systems engineering especially in artificial intelligence and mathematical optimisation studies, neural networks, robots and/or geographic information systems studies.
1990	The work primarily involves the electronic and control of experiments using synchotron radiation.
1990	Some experience in the control of on-line experiments would be useful.
1990	If you have, or expect to obtain in 1991, a good honours degree or equivalent in electrical, electronic or radio engineering, communications, science, mathematics or physics, then we would like to hear from you.
1990	Experience with is useful but not essential.
1990	It provides a stimulating research environment, and computing resources comprising clustered VAXes, SUN workstations, a network of Macintosh personal , and various powerful graphics devices, all connected by Ethernet.
1990	Radar & Microwave Electronics Electro Optics Science Information Fusion Missile Systems Air Traffic Control
1990	You should have a degree in Chemistry, Biology or a related discipline, with 1–2 years post-qualification experience in an analytical laboratory or of environmental surveys, and be familiar with the use of systems or automatic instrumentation.
1990	The department is equipped with full automated analysers, on line to the hospital main frame .
1990	•Models of the Brain
1990	spreadsheet and word processing experience is essential, as is the ability to work under pressure.
1990	A numerate graduate you should have a working knowledge of FORTRAN applications, ideally 1–2 years£ experience in hydrology or water resources.
1990	Completing your BSc, MSc, or PhD? or are you a NEW or RECENT GRADUATE in Electronics, Maths, Science, Physics, or similar?
1990	A knowledge of the use of for research work is essential, and relevant experience gained in developing countries would be advantageous.
1992	ANIMATIONS New series of Wild Life images Buying one for your machine GIFTS Some seasonable inspiration
1992	Welcome to these two newcomers but meanwhile, ‘old hand’ Diane Bennett tackles the decision of buying a for the knitting machine, so don't miss Oh Brother if you are about to do the same.
1992	A FOR MY KNITTING MACHINE?
1992	What next, I am often asked — well, the latest ‘Knitting revolution’ is the use of the for designing fabrics and garments.
1992	I have been interested in the use of for designing knitwear for several years.
1992	The commercial software available for my was very limited and my attempts to design my own even more so!
1992	I have seen what graphics packages on more sophisticated were able to produce, but I wanted to be able to use this with the knitting machine.
1992	Nearly two years ago, I saw the type of package that really interested me BUT, of course, it was not for my .
1992	Apart from a desire to use it with my knitting machine, I was happy with my and this was the main problem — I didn't want to change it.
1992	My big problem was that all my files, containing the text of my books, articles, notes and so on were on discs of the wrong size to run of any other — without expensive conversion.
1992	When I got home, I would buy a new and explore first DesignaKnit and then other software packages.
1992	When I returned from my trip, however, it was to discover that while buying software is easy, buying a is certainly not!
1992	It was a difficult decision which must be much more difficult for many of our readers who have never used a before.
1992	CHOOSING A
1992	The first step is to select the type of to buy.
1992	Ask anybody who is knowledgeable about and they will tell you that you should always choose the software you want to run first, then buy a which is suitable to run this.
1992	Most owners, however, find that they want a for several different purposes.
1992	When I bought my old , it was originally just for word processing — for my books and articles like this one, for example.
1992	Fortunately, I had chosen a that was, at that time, widely used by small businesses, so a variety of software was available.
1992	Think carefully before you decide — will it be just for you, or will other members of your family want to use the ?
1992	One word of warning, however, don't be talked into a certain type of by your children.
1992	The ‘in’ changes with the ‘latest’game — they will be happy with whatever you get (if you are foolish enough to let them get their hands on it!).
1992	It is also the with the widest range of software available for business applications, so there is a very wide range of other software.
1992	You have chosen a ?
1992	Many , like my old Amstrad and the Amiga, come in standard formats.
1992	This is not simply one make of — there are literally hundreds of different makes, available with a wide range of choices of memory, storage and screen.
1992	The problem with my files would have been solved if I had been using an IBM machine — but they were way beyond my price range when I bought my first .
1992	have two different types of memory.
1992	When the is running, a program like DesignaKnit needs RAM.
1992	This is the amount of memory that is needed for the to undertake all the different tasks which the software requires.
1992	The other type of memory is the 's data storage.
1992	However, if you turn the off without storing the design on disk, it will be lost and you will have to start again!
1992	The small  disc is inserted into the floppy drive of the and the program can then be run or installed or data read from the disk.
1992	A hard disk is usually built into the and is a slightly different form of storage.
1992	The amount of information which can be stored on a hard disk is much greater — my , for example, has a 105 megabyte hard disk.
1992	The advantage of a hard disk is that the programs and data are available whenever the is switched on, without having to find and run the correct floppy disk.
1992	The main disadvantage is that a with a hard disk is more expensive.
1992	When buying a new , the same model is usually available with a range of different monitors.
1992	A fairly sophisticated monitor is required for design software — but if you have the wrong type, don't despair, because monitors are available separately from .
1992	BUYING THE
1992	Your local supplier may be the first place to visit.
1992	They can provide not only the , but also help and information should things go wrong — which may be very important.
1992	There are also specialists, for example 21st Century of Peterborough who provide specialist support for DesignaKnit and Creation 6.
1992	Buy some magazines — you will find that many companies sell direct, not through dealers.
1992	However, this again will depend on what you want to use the for.
1992	Within 15 minutes of my arriving, I had DesignaKnit installed and running.
1992	Some dealers who supply design software are able to supply , while others can advise you where to go for help.
1992	The very rapid pace of change in the market does mean that second-hand can be excellent value.
1992	Some dealers do supply second-hand which they have taken in part exchange and these may have the additional advantage of a short guarantee.
1992	auctions are another alternative — prices can be very low, but the risk is very high!
1992	I certainly think so — I am delighted with my new .
1992	Software has improved dramatically in the six years since I bought the old and this one is faster and easier to use.
1992	She is also planning courses on DesignaKnit, the Bit Knitter and an introduction to for the terrified.
1992	THE GRID, pop house boffins, accompany the release of their acclaimed LP ‘456’ with their first ever live dates, incorporating interactive video and graphics and banks of television screens, on show at
1992	Well, get a load of their new, de-sampled sound and run it through your Real Music , because, unveiled here for (ah well) the Americans, it requires no wind machine to create a storm.
1992	Problems in the production of Super Mario Brothers , the $40 million adaptation of the best-selling game.
1992	He somehow manages to distil the very essence of everything good in the lineage of Bobby Vee, Jefferson Airplane, Bob Marley and The Fall, mangle the results in the scrambled of his mind and offer up a new vision so convincing you forgive his rants against organised religion.
1992	Underwood and Carling's tissue types will be stored on until they can be matched up with somebody who needs them.
1992	The shiny personal stood on a leather-topped pedestal desk between two glass-fronted bookcases with cupboards below and scrolled pediments above.
1986	I believe this to be true in the case of where they do lag behind the West: I do not believe it in the case of radar.
1992	A KWVR member and programmer has designed a sophisticated program that is cutting significantly the time taken to process bookings.
1993	Holdene Group plc is one of the UK's longest established dealerships and a UK Compaq supplier.
1993	John, however, chose the honour of representing his country over financial gain and valuable ATP points, earned through tournament play.
1992	Like , most people who make the hardware (the frames) don't specialise in the software (the strings).
1993	Although recently wound up, one spin-off has been the in-house desk-top publication of the Technical Bulletin itself — the excellent colour illustrations have been printed from digitised colour images taken from high quality transparencies.
1993	Leggatt's library goes on
1993	At a time when the company was obliged to draw on its total shareholders' equity to pay its (reduced) dividend, the installation of a new mainframe system linked to New York (and horribly slow to use according to London experts) accounted for a sizeable percentage of last year's $7 million auction operating costs.
1992	This month, from the 2nd to the 19th, he has re-installed the space with new elements including a video visualisation of one of his own schematic architectures.
1982	An example of the former came from Continental FC's captain Barry Dennis, who, having left school, went to college where he gained a Full Technological Certificate enabling him to take a position in the industry.
1993	Intel Corp has found another patent that it thinks is being infringed, and has asked the US International Trade Commission to investigate the import from Taiwan of Twinhead Inc's Slimnote notebook , and put a ban on them.
1993	Apple Inc is not putting all its object-oriented eggs into the Taligent Inc basket, US PC Week reports.
1993	Network Computing Devices Inc pretty much has the dedicated X-terminal business sewn up, and the Mountain View, California company is now moving in on the personal X Window System emulation business with launch of PC-Xware, a single software package that it claims provides full X terminal functionality on personal for the first time.
1993	It also offers the facility to manage and configure personal running X Window centrally and remotely.
1993	While the systems may reside in a single cabinet (plus some outboard boxes for disk drives), within the AS/400 are terminal support units based on fast general-purpose microprocessors, disk and tape controllers using comparable technology, an intelligent memory subsystem, one or more applications processing engines and a DBMS that owes its power and economy to hardware and microcode.
1993	OpenVision's technology is aimed at managing large geographically dispersed networks of heterogeneous with the degree of control comparable with that expected by mainframe users.
1993	As it turns out they are Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and NCR Corp (as we said), NEC Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co.
1993	NEC said that initially in markets outside Japan it would look to sales through OEM channels — it currently has OEM relationships with Compagnie des Machines Bull SA, and Stratus Inc, whose fault-tolerant systems it buys for sale in Japan.
1993	Other telecommunications equipment demonstrated will include Synchronous Digital Hierarchy optical transmission systems and Fibre Subscriber Loop optical subscriber transmission systems, as well as a compact all-in-one desktop digital microwave radio system; and Fujitsu's cellular phones and Poquet Pad pen , as well as the multimedia FM-Towns personal .
1993	Sequelink provides a tool for linking personal users with information on one or more central databases in a Unix environment.
1993	The agreement is something of a coup for the Belgian because it is the first instance of a Japanese company marketing Sequelink directly.
1993	The technology enables the reading-in of video pictures as digital data into the , high-speed analysis, and then retrieval and editing of the stored frames.
1993	The prototype system consists of a workstation with video input equipment (laser disk, video tape and broadcast tape); it was demonstrated at Interchi ‘93 International Conference on Human Interfaces in Amsterdam, Holland.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp yesterday unveiled the DECpc MTE line of two 80486-based personal , starting at $2,650 and $3,100: they include a 32-bit EISA bus and VESA VL bus and are claimed to be the highest-performance 80486 machines available; they are Pentium-upgradable and offers a PCMCIA peripheral card option for data sharing with portable having PCMCIA.
1993	NEC Corp expects personal shipments in 1993-94 to increase by 10% to 1.37m units as a result of the government's increased spending on for schools and public institutions: according to Reuter, NEC sees its personal sales rising in the second half of the fiscal when public institutions start to introduce the machines; in the year to March, NEC's personal shipments were down by 5%.
1993	Seymour Cray is still hopeful of bringing his crippled Cray Corp safely in to land, and this week told shareholders that the pay-off will come not with the Cray-3, but with the Cray-4 the company is developing —‘People who predict that things can't be done — I guess I don't have time for them,’ he told shareholders sternly —‘That's the challenge that I'm willing to accept in trying to do things that can't be done’; the Cray-3 was launched last month, a decade after Cray started work on it, but the Cray-4 is expected to offer twice the performance at half the cost, and the company hopes to demonstrate it by year-end; it says it has enough cash to fund operations into September and says it is working with two investment banking firms on fund-raising strategies.
1993	Storage Technology Corp's automated tape libraries can now be directly attached to Tandem Inc NonStop Cyclone and CLX 800 boxes.
1993	Roy, Utah-based Iomega Corp will market its Tape250 minicartridge drives under the Memorex name as a value-added tape back-up system to be sold through Memorex Telex NV retail channels: Memorex Supplies will package the tape drive with a pre-formatted MRX2120 minicartridge tape, Norton Backup software for both MS-DOS and Windows, and a screwdriver for $320.
1993	Dell Corp is to offer specially priced, custom-configured personal to employees of the American Airlines unit of AMR Corp: the 115,000 American employees worldwide can now buy Dell machines pre-installed with the software and peripherals needed to get onto and use American's Sabre air reservation and flight system.
1993	Apple Inc is teaming up with trading house Uchida Yoko Co Ltd to expand its business with Japanese schools, Reuter reports from Tokyo: Uchida, which specialises in office equipment and school supplies, aims to sell 3,000 Macintosh personal to schools in the year from July, taking advantage of the fact that in Japan's supplementary budget unveiled in April, the government plans to increase spending on for schools and other public bodies — it is expected that $1,800m will be devoted to buying over 300,000 machines for schools by 1996, with NEC Corp and Fujitsu Ltd, the latter with its FM Towns multimedia box seen as the main beneficiaries.
1993	While its former parent, Tandy Corp, announces plans to open a second SuperCenter store in Sweden (CI No 2,167), InterTan Inc, the company that owns the Tandy name outside the US is pulling back sharply after losses became unsustainable.
1993	In the most naked exercising of user power yet, General Motors Corp and General Electric Co Inc are discussing combining their personal procurement to screw vendors down to even better terms than are currently available in today's climate of bitter price war, the Dallas Morning News reports.
1993	The two industrial giants are separately probably the two largest buyers of personal in corporate America, and in alliance could drive the prices they get to below cost; the proposed alliance would also set stricter terms on speed of delivery and on quality of service.
1993	The Dallas daily says that General Motors and General Electric have met several times in recent months to examine ways to increase their influence over the likes of IBM Corp, Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and Apple Inc, quoting executives involved in the talks and industry analysts and the pact could create a consortium with a requirement as many as 100,000 desktop personal annually.
1993	Kontrax Group, the Hungarian distributor and telecommunications giant, initiated bankruptcy proceedings on behalf of its six key component businesses after five of its 23 creditors rejected the debt restructuring and cost-cutting programme.
1993	The fall of Kontrax is bad news for Mirror Group pensioners — Maxwell Communications Corp Plc owned 30% of the firm, for Compaq Corp — which will now have to try to retrieve its first consignment of personal destined for the company from Hungarian customs authorities, and Disco himself, who opted to build his flat on top of the multi-million dollar Kontrax office building.
1993	Since last summer, Controll has been acting as a dealer for Hewlett-Packard Co, Compaq Corp and Philips Electronics NV.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co and the Hungarian Central Statistics Office have formally signed an $11m contract for the replacement of the Office's IBM Corp 4381 mainframe-based centre with an open system.
1993	The Statistics Office will be supplied with a three-processor HP 9000/890 server with 512Mb along with Model 867, 847 and 817 dedicated servers, 50Gb of hard disk storage with optical and Digital Audio Tape back-up, and 210 personal and workstations.
1993	Hewlett-Packard will also supply 19 Series 800 servers to the Statistics Office regional branches, each with 2Gb to 4Gb of disk storage, along with another 270 personal and workstations.
1993	Lazzlo Kalmar, the director general of Hungary's National Labour Organisation, meanwhile, appeared to confirm that plans to introduce a nationwide network to automate the payment of benefits to Hungary's 663,000 unemployed was on hold.
1993	Although optical may now be a reality, it seems that the new technology is unlikely to replace electronics entirely.
1993	The software also provides data switching, enabling terminal and personal users to choose the resource to which they need to connect over low speed lines.
1993	As the latest move in its expansion of Internet access, Kansas City, Missouri-based Sprint Corp has announced connections between the National Science Foundation's US communications network, NFSnet, and scientific research networks in 12 countries.
1993	Schoolchildren in the US and the UK were linked over the system as they used their personal for discussion of the environment.
1993	Deputy group chief executive, J A Woan attributed its success to careful cost control, strong sales of its Sparcbook notebook , and a healthy OEM business.
1993	In an effort to expand this business further, it has just signed a joint marketing agreement with the Sparc Technology Business Unit of Sun Microsystems Corp, which sells Sparc technology and expertise to third parties, but will focus on higher volume, standard board designs, while marketing Tadpole's skills in complex custom board designs.
1993	Still, the vast majority of Tadpole's profits come from its systems business, including Sparcbook product, portable , and fees from licensing deals.
1993	Other recent signings include Nottinghamshire-based Systems Development Consultants Ltd, Select Business Systems Ltd of Dundee, Scotland, York Ltd and Leeds-based LSI Ltd.
1993	OPTi Inc, Santa Clara manufacturer of core logic chip sets for personal , got its initial public offering of 2.5m shares, 2m of them new, away at $10 a share and plans to use the $9.5m or so net proceeds to finance accounts receivable and inventory.
1993	Today is Pentium launch day when the likes of NCR Corp, Unisys Corp, Compaq Corp and some two dozen other companies take the wraps off their first Pentium machines, but there is not much point in their making too much noise about it — Intel Corp expects to ship only about 10,000 Pentium chips to customers through June; machines are generally expected to start at about $5,000, but the Wall Street Journal hears that Advanced Logic Research Inc will announce a basic Pentium box for about $3,000; Compaq also plans an $18,000 Pentium version of its SystemPro server.
1993	On May 16 1988, Computergram Number 929 reported that Computerland demanded indemnity from PS/2 clone suppliers * * * Harris cut 100 jobs * * * Data Switch added IBM channel to T-1 line switch * * * British Telecom took 51% of Holiday Designers * * * DEC cut disk tags 51%.
1993	DEC will offer services using the technology in partnership with cable companies, and will go after business, universities, local governments and hospitals that need to send data between at different sites within a city or town.
1993	No doubt hoping to steal a little of Intel Corp's Pentium thunder — Pentium news is splattered all over pages two and three inside — Motorola Inc yesterday launched three new 32-bit microprocessors for notebook , communications devices and home entertainment systems.
1993	The second part is a V version of the 68040 for laptop : it adds power-saving circuitry designed to double battery life.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co moved in on Compaq Corp yesterday, making its entry into the iAPX-86-based server business.
1993	Apple Inc yesterday announced that it had linked up with France Telecom to offer a version of the Macintosh PowerBook 180 portable to be called the PowerBop, Reuter reports from Paris.
1993	Compaq Corp announced both desktop machines and servers and is actually placing most of its valuable early Pentiums into the desktop products so that the new Deskpro 60/M and 66/M machines will debut first.
1993	Dell Corp's new 4560/XE server is built around the company's new XE-server chassis and the 60MHz Pentium processor.
1993	The boxes include Windows and NetWare personal and two new U6000 Unix System V.4-based departmental uniprocessor servers, the 100 and the 300, 8-slot EISA systems with 192Mb memory capacity and a maximum 2.1Gb disk.
1993	Unisys will also make note of the fact that its anticipated PCI-based multiprocessing Unix Server Design Center, due in the fourth quarter, will house Pentiums and later P6s and that the high-end U6000/75 and U6000/85 that it buys OEM from Sequent Systems Inc will be field-upgradable to Pentium in the fourth quarter.
1993	Dell Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, AST Research Inc and Advanced Logic Research Inc say they do meet the specs.
1993	The traditional Japanese trading companies constantly flirt with the industry, and trading giant Mitsui & Co has signed up with Yokogawa Hewlett-Packard Co to market Hewlett-Packard Co's HP SoftBench software engineering system for integrating development tools.
1993	Rhines sees the current semiconductor industry as being in turmoil, as the impetus in the industry moves from the vertically-integrated companies to functionally-defined companies — Japan being an exception to the rule however; and the purchasing power of vendors such as Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and Apple Inc for example, causing major growth in the merchant market.
1993	Wandsworth, South London-based GL Software Ltd now has a Windows version of its Updata price quotation and analysis software which transforms personal into a Reuters style dealing desk — for around a tenth of the cost.
1993	It serves as an ever-expanding database that continuously scans Teletext City pages and stores the information on the user's personal .
1993	Minimum Windows system requirements are an 80486 personal with 8Mb of RAM — Updata grows at around 1Mb a year.
1993	The system runs on personal , with at least 4Mb of RAM, under Windows 3.1, OS/2 and Windows NT and it supports SQL databases such as Oracle and Sybase.
1993	EcoTools/Oracle for managing distributed Oracle-based client-server systems runs on Hewlett-Packard Co, Sun Microsystems Inc and Sequent Systems Inc hardware and supports Oracle 6.0, Open Windows and TCP/IP.
1993	A report in the Italian journal La Stampa says sources close to the Mani Pulite investigators believe the Ivrea-based company paid a total of approximately $13m.
1993	Products Inc has reported first quarter net profit of $2.8m, after $2.3m gains from the cumulative effect of an accounting change, against losses of $439,000 last time, on turnover up 8.3% to $28.7m.
1993	British Telecommunications Plc said yesterday it plans to start selling satellite dishes and receivers by Christmas, making the move since it is one of the few activities it is allowed to pursue in the entertainment arena: ‘We see it as a very important part of our wish to be part of the converging area of telephony, entertainment and ,’ the company told Reuter; the company will reportedly source the equipment from two unidentified UK companies, in a move that is a significant threat to Amstrad Plc, whose shares fell tuppence to 31p.
1993	Headline of the week so far comes from Reuter, which says MICROSOFT SHIPS WIDOWS IN JAPANESE, but the truth is that Microsoft Corp said the Japanese-language edition of the Windows operating system version 3.1 is now being shipped, adding that it is the first retail version for personal to be introduced in Japan, and that 24 of the OEM customers supporting Windows in Japan are offering it pre-installed and preconfigured on their machines as part of Microsoft's Windows Ready-to-Run programme; Microsoft is also set with Windows 3.1 in Korean and Chinese.
1993	Xerox Corp announced yesterday that it had developed an advanced ink-jet technology that uses a 128-nozzle print head for desktop printers, and that it has retained Tokyo Electric Co Ltd to assemble the printers; Xerox is manufacturing the printers' ink-jet cartridges at its Canandaigua, New York plant; it notes that the 128 nozzles enable faster print speeds than competing printers; the printer will ship later this year.
1993	Texas Instruments Inc, Dallas yesterday introduced a new notebook and an inkjet printer: the 400E WinDX2/50, at $5,000, uses a 50MHz 80486DX2 processor and has a 256-colour VGA screen with high-speed video for graphics reproduction, a 200Mb disk, runs three hours between battery charges, and bounces like a ball — well it has ‘higher’ operating shock tolerance.
1993	Waltham, Massachusetts-based Kronos Inc agreed in principle to acquire the technology and some assets of Recovery Inc, an AS/400 software development company based in Alvarado, Texas, on undisclosed terms: it specialises in providing AS/400 time accounting software.
1993	Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based Fiserv Inc is to acquire Data Line Service Co, a Covina, California-based services company serving more than 40 financial institutions in the state; terms of the proposed transaction were not disclosed; Data Line provides services to savings and loan institutions, savings banks and mortgage companies and has 250 employees with locations in Phoenix, Arizona and Dallas, Texas as well as the one in Covina.
1993	Although Uzell reckons there are no real dominant players, he divides the competition into four main areas: vendors, such as IBM Corp and ICL, which he reckons have the geographical scope and financial muscle to deal with the global demands of systems integration projects, but are unlikely to be independent, are often too hardware-oriented and lack the relevant software expertise; management consultancies, such as Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse, which he believes do have the necessary business knowledge, but generally lack implementation skills and have little experience of large-scale project management; telecommunications suppliers, such as AT&T Co and France Telecom, which again he reckons are too hardware-oriented and short of software skills; and software houses, such as Electronic Data Systems Corp and Cap Gemini Sogeti SA, which he recommends for their independence and expertise, but feels that few are international enough or have the necessary financial clout to handle large deals.
1993	Uzzell claims that BT is currently the biggest single customer of IBM, Digital Equipment Corp, and Tandem Inc.
1993	In addition to being Microsoft Corp's front-line defence against the forces of Sun Microsystems Inc WABI binary interface for Windows applications under Unix, and providing the MS-DOS and Windows emulator on most other vendors' Unix machines, Insignia last week became one of only 12 companies to get on Apple Inc's ‘Inside Track’ programme.
1993	Object-oriented versions of AIX and OS/2 will also use ObjectStore subsets, and Object Design is currently negotiating to get its stuff into the IBM-Apple Inc Taligent Inc object operating system effort.
1993	Future releases will include a Digital Equipment Corp VAX version — DEC server software already exists, and an NT-based personal version.
1993	Total orders for the second quarter, to April 30, were 28.5% up at $5,370m; orders for products rose 32.9% to $4,120m, making it clear that the company, where accounted for less than half of the business only a few years back, is continuing progressively to become more and more a pure company.
1993	Profits were 50% up at passive components distributor Nortronic but Wakefield, the US networking equipment company that has moved into network systems integration, turned in a slightly lower contribution than last year because return of growth in the UK market has not enhanced the communications sector yet.
1993	Kalamazoo Group Plc has acquired its first motor trade systems and services house on the continent, CBA/Nederland BV, for £937,000.
1993	Eindhoven-based CBA operates solely in Holland and supplies personal hardware, software and services to 250 dealers, wholesalers and importers.
1993	Little more than a year ago you couldn't give away shares in the small company sector — so friendless were they that Star Group Plc found it necessary to get into bed with a purveyor of pizzas to improve its visibility and rating: after Tadpole Technology Plc and now Division Group Plc — which soared to 107 pence on its first day of trading from the 40 pence placing price before settling at 96 pence — the rest of the sector looks set for a re-rating as investors seek to discern hidden charms that others have overlooked.
1993	On May 18 1988, Computergram Number 931 reported that IBM was seeking retroactive royalties from any company that had cloned the Personal * * * the Open Software Foundation was revealed with seven sponsors * * *
1993	ICL Plc aims to bridge the gap between personal and dumb terminals with its new network terminal, ErgoClient, for client-server computing, which acts as a half-way house and is claimed to be the only product capable of filling a gap in the market by combining the price-performance of a terminal with the flexibility of a personal .
1993	As a result, users have ‘the best of both worlds’ and ICL claims ErgoClient reduces the hidden costs of owning a personal by 75%.
1993	The ErgoClient takes on the characteristics of a personal by means of a similar personality module, which incorporates an Intel Corp 80486 processor and simply slots into the machine.
1993	Moreover a PCMCIA slot enables the user to upgrade his terminal to a personal running under MS-DOS or Windows by inserting a hard disk or Flash memory card.
1993	Aldus Corp signed a letter of intent to acquire After Hours Software Inc, a privately held 33-employee Los Angeles developer of personal information management products — TouchBase, Datebook — for Apple Inc's Macintosh.
1993	Dun hopes its support for Microsoft Corp's Windows NT via SmartStream will pull in large corporate personal users looking to upsize operations.
1993	Oceanport, New Jersey-based Concurrent Corp has has opted to take Unix System Laboratories Inc's Unix System V.4.2 MP as the operating system for its next generation of real-time Unix systems, which are due out by the end of this calendar year.
1993	It is also a leading member of the MIPS Application Binary Interface initiative (along with other MIPS users such as NEC Corp, Tandem Inc, Pyramid Technology Corp and Silicon Graphics Inc), and says it is perfectly happy with its choice of chip.
1993	Unveiling its new WinServer multiprocessors running Microsoft Corp Windows NT, Sequent Systems Inc says the home-grown WinServer 5000 comes with up to 16 Intel Corp 50MHz 80486 parts — scalable to 30 CPUs — 2Gb memory, 384 disks and 32 SCSI channels.
1993	Tandem Inc's Ungermann-Bass Inc announced a new smaller eight-port model of its DragonSwitch for Ethernet product.
1993	The most interesting new addition is Open Desktop Lite, a cut-down version of release 3.0 that is pitched squarely at the stand-alone iAPX-86 workstations also being coveted by SunSoft Inc, Univel Inc and NeXT Inc.
1993	For instance, it is hoping to stem the flow of spending out of Scotland.
1993	It uses optical scanning to store information on and then networks it to scattered staff who index, abstract and compile the material for an on-line database in Amsterdam.
1993	At BT's Thurso help desk in Caithness, 30 staff provide on-line help to BT users in London and a further four in a tele-service centre provide desktop publishing and video conferencing to other departments and non-BT companies.
1993	‘The projected 20% growth in the world semiconductor market this year is due to increased demand for chips used in personal and related applications,’ according to Doug Andrey, Director of Industry Statistical Programs for the Association.
1993	CompUsa Inc, which operates a chain of stores, filed with the US Securities & Exchange Commission for a public offering of $85m senior subordinated notes due 2000.
1993	The funds raised will be used by Mylex for working capital and to assist in the Company's transition to more technologically-advanced systems products — further enhancements on its disk array controllers, servers and subsystems and further design on the company's planned Pentium products.
1993	Austin, Texas-based Dell Corp keeps them coming — yesterday added seven new 80486-based Dimension personal at from $1,400 including colour monitor and enhanced graphics built in through an integrated local bus video system: the systems also include 4Mb, 170Mb disk, 3.5’ and 5.25’floppies, 512Kb video RAM MS-DOS 6.0 and Windows 3.1 installed, and mouse.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co — shares up $5.125 on those sterling second quarter figures (CI No 2,171)— may be doing very well with its Unix (it is), but its out-and-out winner is of course the printer business: printer orders in the quarter were up a phenomenal 33% on the 1992 second quarter at $4,100m.
1993	The old order changeth, and how — back at the end of the 1970s, Ted Dexter and Honeywell Information Systems Ltd got together to propose to the British Broadcasting Corporation that television coverage of cricket could be enhanced with a little judicious intervention and the age of computer-aided sports broadcasting was born: for a decade and more a Level 6 minicomputer or successor followed the cameras and trundled around the cricket grounds of England and Wales in the back of a truck as Honeywell and successor company Bull HN Information Systems Ltd maintained the tradition — but with the first one-day match of the current series against Australia at Old Trafford yesterday, what was the legend at the bottom of the caption but ‘Intel processing’.
1993	Judge Vaughn Walker has dismissed three of the surviving claims in Apple Inc's suit against Microsoft Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co: Apple had originally alleged infringement in 189 elements of Windows, claiming they duplicated the look and feel of the Macintosh; the judge has now removed the remaining three Microsoft Windows features — overlapping windows, animation of windows and icon movements — from the suit and reaffirmed his earlier decision that the jury shall apply a virtual identity standard in comparing the works as a whole; a pre-trial conference has been set for June 28 in the suit.
1993	NCR Corp is to provide third-party service for Everex Systems Inc personal under warranty, in the US, later worldwide; Everex is now under Chapter 11 protection.
1993	Sounds as if the guy is suffering from Hemingway Syndrome: ‘may see their silicon lives flash before their eyes, so to speak, just before they die,’ Prodigy Services Co suggests, reporting that physicist Stephen Thaler of McDonnell Douglas Corp has been playing with neural networks as a way to speed diamond crystal growth but while by day, he created and trained the neural nets, by night, he began annihilating them to see what would happen, randomly severing links, and when between 10% and 60% of the links were destroyed, the network regurgitated nonsense, but as it approached death, 90% of the connections severed, it generated distinct values that had been trained into it, and at times even output ‘whimsical’states, where it would generate values that were neither trained nor ones that would appear in a healthy net, says Thaler, who thinks it may say something about near-death experiences for humans —‘It may not just be fancy biochemistry,’he suggests.
1993	On May 19 1988, Computergram Number 932 reported that Gene Amdahl's Andor Systems planned supercompact CMOS ‘3090’ * * * IBM enlisted Los Alamos lab for second generation vector processor * * * Corp of America won buyout * * * Sybolics laid off 225 people to cut its costs.
1991	There should have been a lifespan of twenty years for H3, but other priorities had been higher, and every four years since 1973 there had been a doctoring of the patient, a new lick of paint on the inside, an attempt to reinforce the roofing against damp, new wiring to carry the power of the that ran their lives.
1991	The science that was relevant to Frederick Bissett was the moment, too fast for any but the most powerful to register, when chemical explosive was driven by uniform spherical detonation against the fissionable material of highly enriched uranium and plutonium creating some millions of pounds overpressure per square inch…
1991	time was not possible.
1991	He had the Intelligence and the Security and the Branch all burrowing in their for an Englishman called Colt who wiped people for the cause of the Republic of Iraq, and he had sweet nothing to do, unless he went eye to eye with the mysteries of the thermostat.
1991	Twenty-seven days earlier he had, by telephone, moved that same sum out of Liechtenstein and into the secrecy-shrouded of the Credit Bank of Zurich.
1992	No previous experience with is necessary.
1992	As a particular strength, it offers broader coverage of specialist vocabulary — from medicine to , journalism to aerospace — than any other advanced learner's dictionary.
1992	ENGLISH for SCIENCE
1992	An intermediate reading course in English designed for those working with or studying science
1992	English for Science is designed for the growing number of people working with or studying science, who need English to carry out their jobs more effectively.
1992	English for Science helps students in two main ways.
1992	It aims to develop the reading skills necessary to extract information from texts, and it also teaches the grammar and vocabulary of the English used in science.
1992	English for Science is suitable for in-company training programmes, and for universities, colleges and technical schools.
1992	The clear structure of the book — reading passages, exercises and Focus sections — means that teachers who are not experts will find the course easy to teach.
1992	The book contains a comprehensive glossary of the terms covered and there is also a complete Answer Book.
1992	The reading texts provide up-to-date information on components and processes.
1992	Covering topics such as the memory, arithmetic and program design, they provide the student with an introductory course in data processing.
1992	They teach the vocabulary of the English used in science, which is also listed in full in the glossary.
1992	To keep up with the rapid advanced in technology,English for Science — although only published in 1984 — has been completely revised and updated to contain up-to-the-minute information.
1992	The final section, ‘Projections’, has been lengthened to cover the newest applications of technology, and to give students the opportunity for extensive reading.
1992	The glossary has been increased to include the latest terms — such as fourth generation languages, viewdata, and mouse.
1992	English for Science — an essential coursebook for all who need to improve their English within this specialized area.
1992	These texts are held on to enable a more scientific approach to the study of the language than has been possible up to now.
1992	The final format of the grammar questions and the balance of language items tested were completed after analysis of extensive data from a rich sample of nationalities.
1992	examine the story behind the curious palm-readings of the people of Chatford in Life Lines
1992	Assisted Language Learning offers the teacher a bank of practical activities, based on communicative methodology, which make use of a variety of programs.
1992	The second section, ‘Activities’, provides ideas for the use of in the classroom.
1992	The third section, ‘Schemes of Work’, shows how can be used to meet the needs of different groups of students.
1992	Rachel works for Astrology Ltd.
1992	She has a clever new idea for using the to read people's hands.
1992	She decides to experiment and asks the to compare photographs of thousands of hands, with surprising — and frightening — results.
1992	In this fable for our age, a freak Joe Jenkins becomes obsessed by a game in which he has to save a goldfish.
1992	Kevin and Sharon go to a boutique, Mrs Wilson to a toy shop, and Margaret and Nicholas to a shop.
1989	More recently, in the third wave of technology the man has been removed from the responsibility for continuous control (this is best done by working to a moderately flexible range of programs) but he remains as the monitor of the system performance and a selector of the appropriate program determined by the changing short-term objectives.
1989	He may keep the responsibility for setting-up and shutting-down the system or this also may be partially delegated to .
1989	Supervisory control is by no means universal, in fact it remains restricted to high technology systems such as aircraft, controlled machine tools, chemical plants and power stations.
1989	There will be certain physical mechanisms such as telephones, typewriters and but the flow of energy is trivial and the interest centres entirely on the flow of  information.
1989	There is a vast amount of information available either in printed form or through networks.
1989	The operator is assumed to be reacting to a situation in a  control room, containing a great variety of dials, charts, and driven displays together with the controls needed to take action in any part of the system.
1989	Man-Computer Interaction has further complicated the relationship between human operators and other parts of a system but the can help to analyse these interactions.
1989	The obsession, of current management, with measurement and the reduction of every variable to numbers for ease of manipulation has worsened the situation.
1989	Much of this information can be incorporated in programs but there is also a need for extensive printed paper for the use of the operator.
1989	Software might be  restricted, as in this book, to programs but it is sometimes used as the generic term to include all sources of information.
1989	The problem is particularly acute for .
1989	Most operators do not know or wish to know about the mechanisms, and in any case these are not accessible to vision and manipulation.
1989	The operator is entirely dependent on the manual, at least in the early stages of gaining familiarity with the system and its functions.
1989	Designers of based support for thinking beyond the level of merely providing additional information will  hopefully begin to simultaneously use and develop these ideas.
1989	Effective support must be matched to human thinking so that communication is readily established and yet different in providing functions which supplement human thinking (p. 233).
1989	The capacity and flexibility of desk-top is now such that the optimal sharing of processing, storage and presentation of material between and operator may well be quite different from the traditional combination of human memory and material on paper.
1989	Much of the labour which used to be involved in manipulating and presenting data can now be delegated to specialised software but the basic issues of coding and structuring data still depend on the skills of the analyst.
1989	If task training is neglected the larger job may be interfered with, e.g. the manager attempting to use a personal with inadequate key-board and data search performance.
1989	This process can be supported by a with which the client may interact alone or it may be used by the counsellor as a database and prompter.
1989	aided instruction (C.A.I.) strictly should cover other techniques such as simulation and based procedures but it is usually intended to mean a situation where a student sits   in front of a screen on which the presented formats relate to his developing cognitive activity as expressed by his manipulations of the associated key-board.
1989	The use of aided instruction in primary schools has created a new  generation of what have been called ‘television children’.
1989	Many of the earlier forms of aided instructions used a central facility and a set of work-stations where a whole class of trainees could function simultaneously.
1989	The widespread use of based learning and testing situations has stimulated the development of ‘student modelling’.
1989	However, communication links between the trainee and the trainer via a are not a substitute for the two-way conversation and observation which normally takes place in a class-room.
1989	programmes are notoriously literal in their requirement for and response to operator responses.
1989	To a trainee at the interface this may not seem very different from a teaching machine or aided instruction but the logic or architecture of the driving system is different so that even more flexibility is available.
1989	Thus assisted instruction (CAI) is more aptly descriptive than based training (CBT).
1992	Advances in technology are now so fast only themselves can keep pace with the data.
1992	are already used in the USA for fishkeeping data bases.
1992	There is a modem noticeboard called ‘Fishnet’ where hobbyists can leave messages or information via their .
1991	Transactions at PAS are done ‘by the book’, no sign of technology here, even the tea machine is configured to take pre-decimal currency, with a cup of tea costing 4d.
1987	The in the classroom and the television and video in the sitting room are symbols of this change.
1987	to teach children how to make use of books, magazines and simple source material (eg on floppy disc and tape) and to develop referencing skills (in atlas, dictionary, information books)
1987	The classrooms in which such learning takes place may look very different from those in which I sat as a child 50 years ago (the walls are covered with paintings and there is a in the corner, the desks are informally arranged) but the assumption that all learning is determined, ordered and mediated through the teacher is the common thread which links the schools of the 1980s with those of my pre-war childhood.
1987	The explanation, that there is an unwritten curriculum which responds to new demands as they occur (eg the revolution of the early 1980s) and that the differences between schools mask even greater similarities is invariably received with scepticism.
1987	Although and calculators have become an accepted part of mathematical teaching their presence in the classroom, should not be taken as evidence per se of ‘up-to-dateness’.
1987	A wheelchair is no barrier to success in creative writing, using a , painting a picture — or to the development of long-lasting friendships.
1987	The seven year old who shows outstanding promise when playing the violin, the eight year old who is fascinated with negative numbers, the four year old who can read fluently, the eleven year old who can design programmes…must have these gifts cherished, not have them dismissed or confined.
1990	He was over-ambitious in his programme of opening new branches; he installed a new system costing $100000 which many considered to be inferior to the previous manual system; and he imposed a rigid form of hands-on management without a fair distribution of equity.
1990	Thus the equities in these businesses are based at present on net asset value: that is, the value of the leases or freeholds, the furniture, the carpets, equipment and so on .
1984	The matter of the paper is to present those areas of AI (some would say that is too parochial and what I shall put forward belongs more generally to Science) where a mechanical analogue of consciousness might be sought in the future, and to argue that they are not the obvious places, and have not been subjected to much philosophical investigation.
1984	He proposed a test, based on communication via teletypes with an unseen entity that was to be at first a human and then a , and if the human interlocutor, who had been told he was communicating on the subject of the differences between men and women, failed to notice that a machine had been substituted for the original human partner in the dialogue, then the machine was deemed to have passed the test, and Turing  suggested we might as well speak of such a successful machine as thinking by polite convention, just as, ‘instead of arguing continually…it is usual to have a polite convention that everybody thinks’.
1984	Modern programs, especially those in AI, are written, and are intended to be thought of, as interconnecting sub-parts or modules, and not at all as seamless wholes.
1984	It is a reasonably well-known fact that the same program can be run on a number of machines, not only different tokens of machines but different types, where that extends to machines working with quite different physical processes.
1984	Support for it has come from the observation that both the brain and the conventional digital (i.e. the one hard-wired only for its machine code) seem to be surprisingly homogeneous in their internal structure, which led to remarks like Newell's (1973)‘…intelligent behaviour demands only a few very general features in the underlying mechanism’.
1984	In a digital the ‘lowest level’ of language is simply a string of binary digits 1 and 0 that is isomorphic to the states of the machine's registers.
1984	Yet it is not too hard to imagine how a parsing program might achieve some such effect: if we ask an English speaker how he does it, we may well get some reply like ‘Well, I'm simply looking for a sense of the word related to drinking, aren't I?’
1984	The US Government is reliably said to have invested large sums from its military budget on research in which impulses from (which might give you something like the binary number level of the program) were detected at a distance and the task was to see whether the highest level of program (expressing what the real purpose of the program was) could be reliably inferred.
1984	If a printed out that its memory was suffering from a certain kind of fault, we might be persuaded from past experience to go on examining its hardware for faults, even though we found none in the initially plausible places.
1984	Closer perhaps to the title of this section, we might come to allow that the really was paying tax refunds (because it said it was), even though all detective work on its machine code program was consistent with it being occupied directing the trajectories of inter-continental ballistic missiles.
1984	More seriously, one might object that everything said here depends crucially on the assumption that there really is one activity, rather than another, that a given is performing.
1984	One might go on to say that if there are two or more consistent interpretations of the lowest level code, then it makes no sense to say that the is in fact, say, paying tax refunds rather than doing something else because that can never be more than a matter of pragmatic interpretation by some human users of the thing.
1984	I would suggest that the two sorts of opacity in a that have been discussed here are at least potentially interesting explications of that fact: modularity and program-level reduction.
1984	But this, of course, makes no serious claim at all about the notion of consciousness, in the sense in which the word is normally used: it simply sets up a definition of the term on which virtually any organism higher than an amoeba is conscious, as would be many existing .
1984	I have not touched on the difficult question of localization here: it is a lively issue where the brain is concerned, but not for the digital because, depending on how you interpret its operations, information can be thought of as being anywhere at all in the machine (i.e. not localized in the sense of being associated with a particular place in it), or (and in some sense conversely) all operations of the machine can be thought of as going on in one very small and specific place.
1984	Neither of these views is of much interest for brain scientists seeking suggestive models.
1984	What I believe a notion of language level can do, though I have not achieved it here, is to put some procedural flesh on those traditional bones.
1984	Given that Ullman's computations can indeed interpret correspondence, shape, and motion in a wide range of paired 2-D views (which has been tested by running his system in its programmed form on a provided with the relevant input), how is his work relevant to questions about perception in animals?
1984	What is more, the vertebrate brain appears to be capable of parallel processing, so programs written for digital are of questionable relevance to human or animal psychology.
1984	Most research in the field has concentrated on modelling logical-sequential computation, which is well suited to general-purpose digital .
1967	In part the reasons are technical (the typewriter and camera — and now the tape — have made the keeping of records easier), but it is also a result of the increasing complexity of social organization.
1991	Duane Rumbaugh's training of Lana, and other chimpanzees notably Austin and Sherman, to use a keyboard made up of small rectangular screens upon which visual, iconic-like, symbols of lines, circles, and dots can be displayed.
1991	Duane Rumbaugh's use of keyboards with which two chimpanzees can be in touch with each other in the absence of trainers is, in part, an attempt to bypass these difficulties.
1983	These data allowed Soane & Watkinson (1979) to build a simulation model to examine the relationship between the flux of ramets, the recruitment of seedlings and the diversity of genets within   the populations.
1983	The models simulated the actual flux of ramets in each of eight studied populations and followed the fates of ramets and families of ramets assuming no selection between families.
1983	mode fling exercises have persuaded Raup (1981) that for the important group of trilobites it was more a matter of ‘bad genes’ than ‘bad luck’.
1983	Other stochastic models have been explored by the generation of phylogenetic diagrams (cladograms), with termination and branching events being controlled using random numbers (Raup et al .,
1983	It is more usual nowadays to use metaphors and refer to the programming of learning (e.g. Pulliam & Dunford, 1980).
1983	It can be easily assumed that because we know how work we therefore know how learning is programmed.
1989	The ‘new technology’— a term used to describe the computerization of the printing industry using word processors and computer-designed pages as well as the direct input of copy by the journalist into the (Fig. 4.4)— would gravely affect employment in the industry as it did away with compositors and printers.
1989	The group has since announced a reduction in staff of one-fifth and it has moved over completely to setting and direct input by journalists.
1985	This requires that answers be precoded so that the responses can be fed straight into a which has been programmed to receive them.
1985	Nowadays, can play a crucial role in this.
1989	In The Hitch-hiker's Guide to the Galaxy the author, Douglas Adams, describes a planet inhabited by a race of hyperintelligent pan-dimensional beings who build a hyperintelligent to help them come up with the answer to Life, the Universe and Everything.
1989	After all, one expects better value for money for one's time.
1989	In its defence the points out that the problem lies not in its answer but in the question it was asked in the first place.
1989	In order to understand the answer they first have to understand what the question really means, and that, they are told, will require an even more powerful !
1989	The development of electronic devices like digital that can have mind-like properties means that a physical basis of mind is much less improbable to us.
1989	In part it came about as a reaction to the inordinate complexity of S-R theory but, I believe, it had much more to do with S-R theory's failure to cope with real psychological problems like the performance of radar operators, and with the availability of machines, , with mind-like properties that made it  respectable to think in mentalistic terms again.
1989	It is true that a number of books were written that attempted to draw parallels between brains and but these largely served to remind us how different they really are.
1989	Recent developments in modelling cognitive processes on have changed the situation quite dramatically and there is now a realistic chance of being able to produce models of the way cognitive processes are carried out that are sufficiently precise and detailed for them to be tested properly against what happens in the brain (McNaughton and Morris 1987).
1989	For example, the central processor unit of a digital is usually a separate module from the memory and so they have complementary functions.
1989	By surrounding the subject's head with a detector array, connected to suitable hardware, it is possible to build up images of the brain, indicating the areas of different levels of radioactivity, and hence of metabolic activity.
1989	An analogy with what happens in digital illustrates this point.
1989	are effectively large arrays of switches, which can be either ‘on’ or ‘off.
1989	In simple there are typically eight such switches, still allowing a large number of possible patterns.
1989	For example, having the first four on and the last four off may lead the to add together two numbers while the reverse may lead it to subtract them.
1989	Psychological studies could provide some answers, but it is not obvious that the subprocesses of language, identified by the psychologist, will map on to individual brain areas, any more than the computational processes of a digital map on to individual parts of its hardware.
1989	One of the most exciting developments in recent years has been the degree of convergence between models of visual function built up by scientists trying to figure out how to build machines that can see and physiologists trying to work out what different parts of the visual system do.
1991	On the third, he explained how to use the for reordering.
1991	‘We do courses at school —’
1991	Back in the office, Luke was standing in an attitude of longing in front of Patrick's .
1993	If you have ever wanted to learn about , take a degree, join a choir, become proficient in a craft, play competitive Scrabble, start coin collecting or become a beekeeper, you will find an organisation that caters for your enthusiasm.
1993	This can be supplemented by written exercises which will be assessed at an extra cost of £15.
1993	Typical examples might include: a duvet, gardening equipment, a video recorder, a home , hobby materials and so on.
1989	But worries about psychologists' neutrality continually resurface in the discipline, in a history which includes 1960s concerns with experimenter effects; 1970s ethogeny; a 1980s preoccupation with the social representations which psychologists as well as subjects draw on; and a long list of attempts to replace living with automated experimenters, from written instructions, to .
1989	competency has become a touchstone of good psychological method:
1989	can even model psychologists and subjects.
1989	They still need to start with ‘subjective’ descriptions of psychologists, subjects, and specific mental processes like memory and language comprehension, which are then translated into a form a can deal with.
1989	Turkle (1984), for example, analyses how provide female-as well as male-identified cognitive experiences.
1983	The fifth client whose outcome was not adopted was a man who was dissatisfied with the service he had received from a dating service.
1987	Soviet economists estimate that with state of the art technology, ten years of work would be required to produce each one-year plan.
1987	Soviet society is poorly computerised, not because the RADA is inadequate, but because user-producer cooperation is poor, and Soviet managers have an interest in concealing the data on which depend.
1987	The Soviet acquisition of has been relatively late…
1987	For example, they will put multiple in a system, each of much less sophistication than the one we put in ours.
1989	There is no doubt that quick recall of number facts is still an advantage even in the era of calculators and .
1993	Unlike most of its competitors, ICL Plc has managed to stay in the black for the year ending December 31 despite having experienced a ‘character-forming year for the industry worldwide’ and being forced to make major price cuts on its products.
1993	Embedded house Force Inc, Campbell, California, which previously worked with the Sparcstation 1 and 2, has signed for the 10.
1993	Themis Systems Inc, on the other hand, is using the Classic to create the SparcLXE with VMEbus for embedded applications, priced at $4,000 in 100 lot with 8Mb DRAM.
1993	Unix software developer Onsite International GmbH, Munich, Germany, has introduced Onsite SVR4.2, an implementation of Unix Systems Laboratories SVR4.2 Destiny desktop operating system for iAPX-86 architectures.
1993	DATAPRO BUYS ABS, SHORTLANDS FROM TRAFALGAR
1993	ABS Ltd, formerly the Allied Business Systems small business manufacturer, has long looked a vestigial part of the Trafalgar House Plc empire, too small to turn up in the annual report, and giving the impression that top management was unaware of its existence.
1993	If that was the case, the Hove, Sussex-based company has now come to the boardroom's attention, and it, together with sister software company Shortlands Computing Services Ltd, has been sold to Datapro Ltd of nearby Horsham.
1993	So, IDC's findings indicate that Unix is the most popular alternative to the mainframe, while personal linked by local area networks are next in line.
1993	He reckons that ‘the technology of the future will be based on the microprocessors, which started the personal revolution.
1993	Metaphor Systems Inc, Red Brick Systems Inc, Information Builders Inc and Seachange Ltd have added relational and non-relational database access to the gateway.
1993	They include Alsys' AdaWorld for native development on Sparc-based and RISCAda line for real-time embedded system development hosted on Sparc-based , targeting the Motorola 68000 family.
1993	Paul had previously been vice president, domestic sales at the former Mips Systems Inc.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA has appointed Acorn founder, Dr Andrew Hopper as director of corporate research.
1993	Lisa Drake, a former Sun Microsystems Inc senior product manager responsible for defining the company's 1995 desktop products, has joined Solbourne Inc as director of marketing, reporting to president Carl Herrmann.
1993	Jeffrey Dunn has joined Kubota Pacific Inc as vice president, marketing reporting to chairman and chief executive officer, Ben Wegbreit.
1993	Amdahl Corp, HaL Systems and Encore Corp have each signed for Micro Focus plc's Cobol/2 compiler: the UK, Newbury-based firm has also signed Result Systems, Croatia, to distribute its products to dealers and third parties in the former Yugoslavia and and TeleLogic, Budapest, to peddle its wares in Hungary.
1993	Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch multinational company, has standardised on Lotus Development Corp's Lotus Notes software as its company-wide form for conferencing: Lotus will now have up to 30,000 Unilever Lotus Notes users worldwide.
1993	Oracle Corp says that its Oracle7 Co-operative Server database is now up on Apple Inc's Workgroup Server 95 running A/UX, Apple's implementation of Unix, adding that the product is the result of over one year of joint development work between Oracle and Apple.
1993	Members include Sun, Xerox Imaging Systems, Access Graphics, Excalibur technologies, Frame, Fujitsu Products of America and Laser Magnetic Storage International.
1993	Associated Experts BV in Amsterdam has announced the extension of its Expert compiler range to include T9000 compilers for K&R, C, ANSI-C, Fortran-77, Modula-2 and Pascal.
1993	$49.8m (18%) was swallowed up by channel margins, interface development tools accounted for $39.2m (14%), services $21.7m (8%), desktop environments and graphical user interfaces $9.23m (3%) and personal X servers $6.8m (2%).
1993	Until then, the limited supplies of Pentium the company can muster will be going to Intel's pet companies worldwide, a short list believed to include AST Research Inc, Compaq Corp, Dell Inc and NCR Corp.
1993	IBM Corp and Sequent Systems Inc are possibly on it too — Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG is helping with the chip so may also be in the line up.
1993	The 50MHz SparCard 2+ single board delivers 35.6 MIPS and is designed for PC-based OEMs and systems integrators needing additional processing power for their embedded Unix systems.
1993	Novell and Apple Inc could follow.
1993	NAC has got its machines to beta on less than $1m, its initial $1.4m coming from the likes of Autodesk chief executive officer Carol Bartz, ex-Digital Equipment Corp engineering vice president Gordon Bell, former Sun Microsystems Inc president Owen Brown, former Microsoft Corp president Mike Hallman, former NetFrame chief executive officer David Hanna, Tandem Inc co-founder Jim Katzman and Mips Technologies Inc co-founder Skip Stritter among others.
1993	In the name of multiprocessing-on-the-desktop, its new buzzword, Sun Microsystems Corporation last week went ahead as expected (UX No 432) and unveiled its latest Sparcstation 10s.
1993	Software Transformation's technology provides a framework of software programming tools that is claimed to transcend differences in graphical user interfaces and varied operating system characteristics such as memory allocation and file systems so that applications need be developed only once to run on a variety of systems — currently Apple Inc's Macintosh, Microsoft Corp's Windows, Novell and Univel Inc's UnixWare and Unixes from Digital Equipment Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co and Sun Microsystems Inc, with versions for OS/2, AIX and NT on the way.
1993	Its workstation figures include sales of server systems that are dedicated to workstation environments, tools and utilities software such as operating systems, compilers, software engineering tools and graphics libraries, certain peripherals — such as personal co-processor boards and laser printers — service, maintenance, custom consulting and systems integration fees.
1993	Systems that do not meet IDC workstation criteria include the Compaq Deskpro, IBM's PS/2 — whether running DOS, OS/2 or AIX — and Apple Macintosh II whether running MacOS or A/UX.
1993	They are considered high-end personal and single-user systems.
1993	Concurrent Corp, Oceanport, New Jersey has launched a Series 7000 Investment Protection Programme under which its customers can buy and install a new Series 7000 system and then order the compatible upgrade to the next generation system, which will be introduced later this year.
1993	The Wall Street Journal has now picked up on that story we reported last month that Apple Inc and Novell Inc are working together to build the Macintosh System 7.1 look and feel atop Novell's MS-DOS-compatible DR DOS to run on Intel Corp iAPX-86-based machines (UX No 429).
1993	In comparison, OLE creates compound documents on a Windows- or Macintosh-based .
1993	Chairman Louis Gerstner said that while demand was week and the company, which once dictated the terms of trade to the whole industry, suffered continued competitive pressures on its hardware products, demand in personal , workstations and service businesses remained strong.
1993	Personal up 40%
1993	IBM also said unit sales of personal were up 40% on a year-to-year basis and the IBM Personal Co was profitable in the first quarter — but does that mean simply that as a quasi-autonomous company, a load of corporate overhead has been lifted from it and dumped elsewhere?
1993	DG said that while it wasn't satisfied with its overall results, it was encouraged by the continued success of its AViiON family of Unix , which showed significant growth over the year-ago quarter, and it remains cautious for the short-term because of the weak worldwide economy and because it sees no evidence that industry-wide pricing pressures will abate in the near future.
1993	Two Dutch companies, Associated Experts BV of Amsterdam and Delft-based Parallel Architecture and Compiler Technology, or PACT BV, have joined forces to produce the Expert Parallel Development System for Transputer-based applications.
1993	Expert combines the Expert Transputer compiler family from Associated with PACT's Parallel C Compiler and run-time system to provide a stand-alone, or complete, set of tools for T400, T800 and T9000 application development.
1993	The system costs around $2,200 for an MS-DOS version and $6,600 for a Unix C-based version and is available from Associated Experts, PACT and their respective distribution chains.
1993	The 601s Motorola intends shipping in high volume beginning in the third quarter are being made by IBM Corp, Motorola's partner along with Apple Inc in the PowerPC push.
1993	But the problem is that they may not be able to deal adequately with operating systems and environments that they don't know and are not allowed to market; especially given the financial position many of them are in.
1993	A savage new twist to the personal price-performance ratchet is in prospect after Advanced Micro Devices Inc announced yesterday that it will plunge straight into the 80486 market with a family of devices using Intel Corp microcode rather than wait until its own ‘clean’ version of the chip is ready in June.
1993	One version of the Am586 chip will incorporate special features for portable .
1993	Sequent Systems Inc will launch its K2 series of multiprocessor Windows NT systems co-designed with Tricord Systems Inc on May 3rd in the US — May 4th in the UK (UX No 420).
1993	Microsoft Corp may be planning to port NT to the PowerPC like Reseller News suggested last week but in sounding out the Motorola people on the subject it didn't seem like anything was imminent — and they want all the key operating systems on the thing.
1993	As it turns out they are Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and NCR Corp (as we said), NEC Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co.
1993	On May 11 at the SunWorld expo Sun Microsystems Corp will complete its Enterprise Server family with the introduction of its scalable, COSE-compliant, 1,500-user, 8-way Scorpion, now officially tagged the Sparcserver 1000, a mid-range multiprocessor.
1993	Tivoli's aim is to reduce the cost and complexity of managing heterogeneous distributed environments which include Unix systems and personal .
1993	Microsoft Corp has told Sequent Systems Inc, one of its allies in the upcoming Windows NT blitzkrieg , that the server version of Windows NT will start shipping by the third week of June.
1993	The pair are hoping the custom-configured WinServers will prove as easy to deploy as personal .
1993	OpenVision's technology is aimed at managing large geographically dispersed networks of heterogeneous with controls similar to those found on mainframes.
1993	Addressing the Journalists Club in Paris last week, Microsoft Corp boss Bill Gates acknowledged newly emerging client-server applications and the rise of personal technology in corporate computing, but said the missing element in making all these applications work easily is a proper operating system.
1993	Convex Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co last week said they are hotting up the alliance that saw Hewlett take a 5% stake in Convex last year with a potentially substantial technology exchange to plug the massively parallel applications gap.
1993	Apple Inc will roll out an enhanced version of its A/UX Unix operating system in June.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has now introduced its most powerful VMEbus board-level yet, and calls it the HP 9000 Model 742i.
1993	The new is based on the 50MHz PA-7100 version of the Precision Architecture RISC, rated at 61 MIPS, and joins the company's family of industrial .
1993	It fits into two 6U VMEbus slots, enabling the Model 742i to outperform multiboard , which typically have more intensive development and support requirements, the company claims.
1993	Concurrent Corp says it has signed up Cranfield Data Systems Ltd in the UK and Istar SA in France to market complete systems for the dynamic analysis and vibration control sectors of the Measurement and Control market using its Series 7000 real-time Unix systems.
1993	Borland International Inc chief executive officer Phillipe Kahn told InformationWeek that Associates wined and dined Novell Inc boss Ray Noorda in an attempt to acquire the company.
1993	Apple Inc and Novell Inc have successfully completed their project to bring the Macintosh system to mainstream computing, but no decision has yet been made on a commercial follow-up: Novell chief financial officer James Tolonen says the companies wanted to see whether Macintosh System could run atop a different operating system and on a different chip, yet still maintain the user-friendly features of the Apple system.
1993	Paris-based Advanced Research International SA is designing a massively parallel processor around DEC's Alpha RISC (UX No 422), and will now develop Fortran 90 compilers and applications for use on parallel systems with Cray Research Inc.
1993	ACSET, which develops compilers for Advanced in Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, will use Cray's Fortran 90 front-end technology to create and market Cray-compatible compilers for ACRI and, eventually, other European manufacturers.
1993	ACRI and Cray will convert applications for both companies' parallel systems — Cray is also designing parallel machines around the Alpha RISC.
1993	Confused between Cray Research Inc and Cray Corp?
1993	It's simple — you just have to remember that Cray Research makes and Cray does research…
1993	Next week, Network Computing Devices Inc will introduce NCDWare 3.0, a personal version of its X server software.
1993	This week the same group of companies that are backing WABI will turn around and reportedly lend their support to what might as well be called MABI, Apple Inc's Mac-on-Unix defence against the forces of Microsoft Corp.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc's SunSelect formally announced its Wabi Windows applications binary interface which enables Windows applications to run under Unix without MS-DOS or Windows being needed, and Microsoft Corp announced its alliance with UK firm, Insignia Solutions Ltd, High Wycombe, to create Windows applications programming interfaces for the Apple Inc Macintosh and Unix and other operating systems (see page three).
1993	Sequent Systems Inc duly unveiled its new WinServer multiprocessors running Microsoft Corp Winodws NT last week (UX No 434).
1993	Not everyone is infected with WABImania including Gerry Popek, head of Locus Computing Corp, who is of course a WABI competitor with Merge, his virtual personal mechanism for running Microsoft Corp operating systems on SCO Unix and now UnixWare.
1993	Manufacturers involved include Adaptec Inc, AST Research Inc, Compaq Corp, Corollary Inc, Hewlett-Packard Co, Intel Corp, NEC Technologies and Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA.
1993	The agreement will also allow Insignia to improve the Windows on Apple Inc Macintosh version of its emulation software.
1993	Intel Corp shares were bouncing last week on excitement generated by a suggestion from Alex Brown & Sons analyst Erik Jansen that he believed Intel was negotiating to use an IBM Corp chip plant in order to boost production of 80486 and Pentium .
1993	Microsoft senior vice president Paul Maritz told Compaq Corp he was expecting NT to ship by the end of June.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc was told pretty much the same thing (UX No 434).
1993	Taligent Inc, the Apple Inc-IBM Corp venture devoted to building an object-oriented operating system environment plans to deliver a complete 32-bit object-oriented operating system around the middle of 1995 and will be looking well beyond its masters' horizons for custom.
1993	These include the Volvox-TW-9000 ‘ready to start’ ; the Volvox-devT9000 toolbox for embedded systems; and three boards — the Volvox-1/SF-900 SBus board, Volvox-1/CTR-900 and Volvox-1/V-900 Master/Slave VME T9000.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is expected to unveil its 150MHz Alpha AXP-based personal for Windows NT at the Windows World expo alongside Comdex Spring in Atlanta, Georgia on on May 25th (UX No 430).
1993	Echo Logic Inc, Holmdel, New Jersey, will duly unveil its FlashPort for Macintosh toolset today, a binary software translation environment for converting Motorola Inc 680x0-based Apple Inc Macintosh programs to run on PowerPC systems under MacOS or the IBM Corp AIX Unix-based PowerOpen.
1993	Open Advantage Unix for SAA is available from Burgess Hill, Sussex-based Accent Ltd in the UK at £500 for a single user version, or up to £2,950 for support for up to 254 SNA sessions.
1993	Next Inc has hired former Dun & Bradstreet vice president, Warren Weiss, as vice president of North American sales and marketing: Next is currently seeking a chief financial officer.
1993	Compaq Corp beat a hasty retreat from ‘desktop Unix.’
1993	El Segundo, California-based systems integrator, Sciences Corp, and Sun Microsystems Inc are teaming to offer client/server solutions to aeroplane builders — the two expect to win $80m of business over the next 18 months: CSC won the $3bn, 10-year outsourcing contract with General Dynamics in 1991.
1993	Toshiba Corp is to manufacture Quantum Effect Design Inc ‘s Orion version of the Mips Technologies Inc R4000 RISC which will be targeted at high-end personal running Microsoft Corp Windows NT.
1993	The same applies for the post of Sun Microsystems Corp's vice president of marketing.
1993	Sun executives say the issue of Sun chief executive officer Scott McNealy giving up his other post as president of Sun Microsystems Corp, Sun's systems planet (UX No 433), has been raised many times and never acted on.
1985	Similarly, the newly recruited engineer who six months previously was poring over the printout of a great new turbo-jet test run trying to find out why there was a short-fall in the power output will not find it at all easy if his first job is with a little four cylinder piston engine.
1985	Very closely associated with the flight recording aspect is the specialist whose primary job is processing the recordings to a read-out from which positive and, most importantly, unbiased information is derived.
1985	His equipment includes AIB's own digital which can be used as an information store and a calculator (very useful in solving aerodynamic problems) as well as for reproducing the recorded information in an easily understood form.
1985	The trio is completed by Dick Vance, the ‘driver’, though his activities extend over the whole breadth of keeping the flight data read-out units in working order and developing the programs and electronics generally.
1985	ICAO now uses a large capacity on which the details of every notifiable accident to a public transport aircraft with a maximum weight exceeding 5700 kilos are recorded from almost every State in the world.
1985	This was done by reproducing the flight instrument panel by means of graphics on a visual display unit with the recorded data being fed to the display in real time.
1991	Uno was the master located below ground level.
1991	The was located inside a vault at Level Five — well away from the windowless conference room.
1991	‘While I was checking the I came across a reference to the P-PRD.
1991	‘You've got no goddamned right to go poking around in that ,’ Frank snarled.
1991	I read your international bestseller,Kruger: The That Failed .
1989	introduction to ;
1989	ISS also has three types:compulsory ;constrained options (aesthetic — art, music, dance, drama; craft design and technology; studies); and free options .
1989	In the technical constrained options, schools might make CDT compulsory or offer a choice between CDT, studies or some other technical/vocational subject.
1993	Various assisted scanning devices have improved the results, and the European Community Haemangioma Working Party has stated that an argon laser should not be used without one of these devices or to treat children.
1993	Patterns of segregation of either disease as assessed by complex segregation analysis performed with the program POINTER.
1993	The personal storage market is evolving so fast that Conner Peripherals Inc, San Jose is having to adjust to changed circumstances and warns that as a result, first quarter profit will be down on that for the fourth quarter, on higher sales.
1993	Olivetti's decision comes despite the fact that it is the controlling shareholder in Acorn Group Plc, originator of the ARM RISC now owned by its Advanced RISC Machines affiliate.
1993	The ARM RISC is the chip used by Apple Inc in its Newton Personal Digital Assistant.
1993	According to UK managing director Richard Bearpark, the company has spent two years absorbing the costs of merger between the data and communications divisions of Siemens and the activities of Nixdorf.
1993	Siemens Nixdorf already resells top-end Unix boxes from Pyramid Technology Corp, in which it has an 8% stake, and lap-top personal from Panasonic Communications & Systems Co.
1993	The decision to buy in or not is particularly relevant to personal sales where margins are tight, but Bearpark reckons that the company can remain competitive because it has huge purchasing power and can buy components at volume discounts — especially in Germany as the Deutsche Mark is very strong at the moment.
1993	While he is not actively developing a third party dealer network because no-one is making money out of simply shifting boxes any more, he did say that systems integrators or value-added resellers have more appeal as people still want .
1993	As for mainframes, the only one Siemens Nixdorf actually has installed in the UK is a 7.000 BS2000 Model H120-R — the Police National .
1993	Two rounds of venture capital funding have brought in $3m — investors include France Telecom's venture arm and Atlas Venture, a Dutch concern that helped Sequent Systems Inc into the world.
1993	Data Systems Inc saw second quarter net profits up 100.3% at $1.1m, on sales up 26.3% at $42m; mid-term net rose 70.9% to $2.3m, on turnover up 22.7% at $83.1m.
1993	DIXONS BUY SUPERSTORES
1993	Consumer electronics retailer Dixons Group Plc has bought one of the UK superstore pioneers, Vision Technology Group Ltd, which operates the PC World chain of superstores, for about £8.5m in cash and loan notes: Vision Tech was incorporated in 1991 to acquire a group of companies engaged in the sale by mail order of personal , peripherals, software and accessories to corporate and educational customers and the individual customers; it made £400,000 pre-tax on volume of £49.3m last year from its stores in Croydon, West Thurrock, Brentford and Staples Corner, and it has net assets of £800,000.
1993	The old certainties that ruled industry analysis over the past 30 years are tumbling like autumn leaves, and commercial realities are now eating away at the traditional determination of Japanese companies to forget the bottom line and stick with major product sectors for the long term: Sony Corp says it is considering pulling out of Japan's competitive word processor market to save the cost of developing and manufacturing new models, Reuter reports from Tokyo; Sony began making word processors in 1985 and production reached a peak of 10,000 a month; NEC Corp, Toshiba Corp, Fujitsu Ltd and Sharp Corp now dominate the market and Sony currently makes just 500 of the things a month, a drop in the 1992 market ocean of 2.6m machines.
1993	The Video Electronics Standards Association in San Jose is not too pleased with one of its members, Dell Corp, which has suddenly jumped up to claim that some VL-Bus products to its standard infringe one of Dell's patents: ‘We are both surprised and saddened that one of the companies involved in ratifying the VL-Bus standard would take such an action,’ said Association chairman Scott Vouri; the patent appears to claim rights to a system receptive to a board that plugs into both a system input-output bus and a high speed expansion memory bus; Dell has been a member for over a year, having joined the club in February 1992, and voted to approve the standard; the group also says that like all the other members, Dell signed a statement indicating no knowledge of any conflicts with its patents.
1993	Islandia, New York-based Associates International Inc says it is now shipping CA-Clipper 5.2, which it says improves performance, extending its functionality and providing better links to foreign data: it costs $800, and is offered to existing users at $150; users of dBase or compatibles will pay $200.
1993	NOVADYNE SYSTEMS GET BT CONTRACT
1993	Santa Ana, California-based Novadyne Systems Inc reports a three-year, $55m contract with British Telecommunications Plc's San Jose-based BT North America Inc for maintenance and installation services for the company's value-added data networks: Novadyne — formerly the US end of McDonnell Douglas Information Systems, will provide maintenance and installation services on its North American network and communications equipment, including hundreds of workstations and other from Sun Microsystems Inc, Data General Corp and Digital Equipment Corp.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc is quietly working up its own handheld communicating effort aimed at the mass market, according to the New York Times.
1993	The paper says that Sun has been working on the project for two and a half years under the code-name Green at its SunLabs unit under former Apple Inc executive Wayne Rosing, and is forming a new company, First Person Inc, to exploit it.
1993	Sun is said to be going into direct competition with Apple Inc spin-out General Magic Inc and has already licensed designs for its nomadic to two Japanese companies, and is in talks with French and German consumer electronics companies.
1993	The two are betting that with WinPad, they can exploit their dominant positions in the personal market to defeat the majors that have already tipped their hands, including AT&T Co and Apple Inc.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co is expected to take a 20% stake in the IBM Corp-Apple Inc Taligent joint venture to seal a deal under which it is working with IBM on a standard for desktop Unix using IBM's Common User Access specification and dubbed COSI, or Common Operating System Interface.
1993	The US and Japan pretty much have the microprocessor design business to themselves, but now it looks as if Taiwan's government-backed & Communication Research Laboratories is trying to get in on the act.
1993	The consortium is breaking out education, customer support, facilities, corporate communications and sales.
1993	Apple Inc's Claris Corp software subsidiary in Mountain View, California has established a wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary to assist in expanding its business in Japan.
1993	Uchida Yoko, a trading house that specialises in office equipment, including office built by Fujitsu Ltd affiliate PFU Ltd, has launched a new career as a reseller of the new low-priced Compaq Corp personal .
1993	Looking for customers that are ready to buy several thousands of the personal at once, Uchida Yoko has already begun lending sample machines to large insurance companies and auto makers.
1993	At least half of Sun CIS Region employees will be drawn from the local industry.
1993	While the price of doing business in Russia is high — the cost of office space in Moscow, for example, is rocketing — Hall reckons Sun kit will cost less in the Commonwealth of Independent States than it does in the rest of Europe, where customers are used to paying a premium for products.
1993	Hall already claims to have customers downsizing from mainframes to client-server systems based on personal and Sparcsystems using SunSelect's PC-NFS mechanism to migrate data.
1993	Evans & Sutherland Corp has reported fourth quarter net profits up 37.4% at $5.5m, after $326,000 extraordinary credits this time and $393,000 last time, on turnover up 19.8% at $47m; net profit for the year to December 25 was down 29.4% at $7.6m, after $709,000 extraordinary credits this time and $1.3m last time, on turnover up 2.6% to $7.6m.
1993	Perot Systems Corp chief Morton Meyerson, one of the candidates for John Akers' job, has been telling IBM Corp's directors what he reckons should be done to rescue the company — and it ain't pretty: according to the Wall Street Journal, he is outlining something very like what we suggested, hiring top people in the appropriate industry segment — Andrew Groves, Michael Dell, Alan Shugart, Scott McNealy, people of that ilk, to run each of the new business units, and if they won't come on board, he says, IBM should sell them respectively the chip, personal , disk drive and workstation lines of business.
1993	NEC LOSS HEIGHTENED BY CHIP AND SLUMP
1993	NEC Corp warns that it expects to plunge to a consolidated loss of $364m for the fiscal year to the end of this month, as slumps in the domestic chip and markets turn out even worse than feared.
1993	Canon Inc's Canon Services Inc in Costa Mesa, California has cut bubblejet printer prices up to 30%: it will also offer a three-month $50 and user rebate programme for its BJ-200 desktop printer.
1993	Fremont, California-based Media Vision Technology Inc has entered into a non-binding letter of intent to acquire Pellucid Inc, which is committed to bringing high resolution real-time, true colour, two- and three-dimensional graphics and full motion video capabilities to the personal market: Media Vision will pay about $15m in shares.
1993	AST Research Inc yesterday introduced the Premmia personal family, designed with a local-bus video subsystem claimed to yield more than 200% faster performance in Windows environments than its earlier generation Power Premium desktop systems which are cut $100.
1993	DEC STARTS SHIPPING MT PERSONAL
1993	Digital Equipment Corp says it today starts shipping its new MT personal , a family of vertically-oriented 80486 machines that occupy one-third the space of conventional desktop systems: prices for the DECpc MT series go from $2,350 to $2,800 and fall in the middle of its line, it said.
1993	Harris Corp Systems unit in Fort Lauderdale, Florida has added new 32Mb and 64Mb memory modules for its Night Hawk 4800 real-time , increasing the maximum capacity to 512Mb from 128Mb.
1993	Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd's Panasonic Communications & Systems Co in Seacaucus, New Jersey cut by between 15% and 40% the prices on its notebook : the CF-1000 is reduced to $1,900 from $2,200, the CF-480 was cut to $1,700 from $2,700 and the CF-480C was reduced to $3,500 from $5,000.
1993	Birmingham-based ACT Group Plc's ACT Support Ltd and Professional Support Centre, an organisation providing personal computer-based software support, have been signed up by personal manufacturer Tandy Grid Systems Corp to offer support services to its customers: ACT will deal with on-site technical support, consulting, training and additional installations, while Professional will look after a hot-line and the initial diagnostic process.
1993	Cellular Inc of Englewood, and TVX Inc, Broomfield, both Colorado came together in Dallas yesterday to introduce a means of transmitting video images from a miniature camera to a personal using the cellular and terrestrial phone network.
1993	The images can be viewed by a monitoring station with a standard personal and a VGA monitor.
1993	Encore Corp, Fort Lauderdale, Florida has teamed with New Straits Times Technologies Pvt Ltd of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to establish Asia Pacific Encore Pvt Ltd, and looks for it to generate $55m of business over the next five years.
1993	Several of the companies were newly founded last month, the most ambitious of which is Advanced Technology Ltd or ACTec, which is charged with producing both an Asynchronous Transfer Mode switch, and separately, a wireless local network system.
1993	It also made a point of saying that the chips would enable personal applications reach their full potential under Microsoft Corp's Windows NT.
1993	The controlling terminal, a specially customised personal , has a Windows-style graphical colour interface and word processing system that can be used to design cheque and credit slip pages — particularly useful for UK customers dealing with different types of crossed and uncrossed cheques.
1993	Galaxy currently supports Motif, Open Look, IBM Corp's Common User Access, X Window, the Object Management Group's Common Object Request Broker specification, the Open Software Foundation's Distributed Computing Environment, Sun Microsystems Inc's Open Network Computing environment, Microsoft Corp's Object Linking and Embedding specification and the Apple Inc Macintosh.
1993	But the electronics and systems dealer is currently reorganising the structure of its business to make sure it can address changing demands in its markets.
1993	Finally, Instem is keen to focus investment on developing its own products and expertise in the area of services, although it will continue to provide electronic manufacturing services to OEM customers.
1993	The US International Trade Commission has upheld the ridiculous decision that Japanese manufacturers are dumping active matrix liquid crystal displays on the US market to the detriment of a handful of tiny US manufacturers that could never meet the demand from the likes of Apple Inc and IBM Corp, but that alleged dumping of electroluminescent displays has not hurt the US electronics industry; the active matrix displays carry prohibitive 62.7% tariffs, which apply to imported screens but not to assembled machines that include them, while the electroluminescent displays carried only a 7% tariff.
1993	Milpitas-based Adaptec Inc is making hay with its disk controllers from the boom in personal sales generated by the price war, and says it expects to report net profit of about $50m, 1.90 per share for its fiscal year to March 31 1993, on sales more than double last year's $150.3m.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc has confirmed formation of the wholly-owned personal communicator unit FirstPerson Inc (CI No 2,118) and says that its key focus will be on developing software that enables different types of digital devices to swap data and work together — it has in mind televisions, radios, satellites and — and to license the software and technology to other companies for use in their electronics products, putting it in direct competition with General Magic Inc, while mirroring some of the concepts of the Echelon Corp Local Operating Network; boss of the new company Wayne Rosen said that FirstPerson has not ruled out collaborating with General Magic.
1993	The West European market for products and services will grow by about 4.3% in 1993 and 6.8% in 1994, according to Bruno Lamborghini, president of the Eurobit industry group, which presented the study to a conference in Brussels: market growth was 14.2% in 1989 and 8.9% in 1990, slowing to 4.3% in 1991 and just 3% last year, having topped 15% for most of the 1980s.
1993	With Amdahl Corp faced with an uphill struggle to adjust its business so that it can thrive in a post-mainframe world, and all its other major investments — things like the former Poqet Corp and HAL Inc still in the development stage and demanding more capital, while its own core business is a victim of the mainframe malaise, Fujitsu Ltd's 80% of ICL Plc begins to look the company's most valuable asset, making it increasingly likely that the company will in due course want to float a lot more than the 25% it originally suggested on the London International Stock Exchange: Fujitsu's biggest problem is the one now facing all big Japanese companies — that the days of cheap capital at home are gone with the bubble economy, probably forever, and many Japanese companies issued convertibles in the 1980s that are coming up to maturity; with prices on the Tokyo exchange still bombed out, few holders are going to want to convert into shares, which means that issuers will have to raise expensive new capital on the international markets to redeem them.
1993	Apple Inc has always jealously guarded its Macintosh environment, but it made a striking gesture when it allowed IBM to build machines that would run the PowerPC version of Macintosh System when the chip is ready.
1993	A further relaxation of its previously rigid stand is suggested by Reseller News, which hears that Apple is negotiating with other third parties — including Radius Inc and DayStar Digital Inc — to develop PowerPC versions of the Macintosh for specific niche markets.
1993	BuildNet includes pre-written versions of the two most popular neural network algorithms, Back-Propagation and Learning Vector Quantization 2, and an X Window-Motif-based graphical user interface designed to enable users to run the algorithms on the CNAPS and display test results graphically, even if they have no programming experience.
1993	Microsoft asked distributor, Keydata SA to set up the Institute four years ago.
1993	Two months after Apple Inc released a Catalan version of its System 7, Microsoft Corp has jumped on the bandwagon and announced Catalan editions of MS-DOS 5.0, Windows 3.1, and a spell-checker and dictionary for Word for Windows 2.0.
1993	Sales and marketing manager Mariano Romero affirmed that the Madrid company would continue to sell communications software and services, which enable the integration of multivendor host .
1993	For several weeks, Apple Inc has been showing to developers prototypes of those two new high-end that according to US PC Week could create a breakthrough in performance and multimedia capabilities.
1993	The product is a file manager and full-screen text editor that emulates IBM Corp's ISPF/PDF on the mainframe, and the new release includes complete ISPF/PDF emulation, integration with Micro Focus Plc's Cobol Workbench, and compatibility with all micro Cobol compilers so as to bring the ISPF mainframe programming environment to personal running MS-DOS or OS/2.
1993	Developers will get early access to Pioneer Software's complete suite of ODBC drivers, which support over 20 personal and SQL databases — Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase, dBase Ingres, Paradox, DB2, SQL/400, Btrieve, OS/2 Data Base Manager, Informix, NetWare SQL, Excel, Progress, SQLBase, XDB, SQL/DS, Tandem Inc NonStop SQL, Teradata, text files, HP Allbase/SQL and HP Image/SQL and gateways to IBM's DDCS/2, Micro Decisionware, and Sybase NetGateway.
1993	A group of Czech teenagers allegedly made a few hundred copies of locally-produced software packages and sold them for $10 a piece, after advertising them via direct mail-shots.
1993	The most likely candidates are local firm MSP Sp zoo, and DHI, which is majority owned by Munich-based 2000 GmBH — although this was not confirmed by American Technologies' executive vice-president Alex Barkaloff.
1993	It will also distribute Tandy's Victor Technologies personal line.
1993	The tender for vendors to supply several hundred personal and related equipment to regional higher education centres at Debrecen , Pecs and Szekesfehervar closed on February 18 and was also funded by a loan from the European Bank.
1993	The Hull-based group spent £220,000 on acquiring the business and assets of £600,000 turnover maintenance company, Novar, in September for £220,000.
1993	While the company writes most of these itself, it also sells Unix financial and business management applications from Prophecy UK Ltd, a subsidiary of Adelaide, South Australia-based Software Packages Pty Ltd.
1993	Boca Research Inc, doing graphics, communications, memory and other boards for personal in Boca Raton, Florida has gone public with an initial offer of 3m shares, 1.25m of them new, at $10 a share.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and British Telecommunications Plc decided to unveil their jointly-developed personal videoconferencing system, the multi-media Personal Communication system first in Milan rather than London: the system enables pictures, speech, text and data to be transmitted from one workstation to another.
1993	As a consolation prize for losing the post of president at IBM Corp, Jack Kuehler has been drafted onto the board of Taligent Inc, IBM's object-oriented operating system joint venture with Apple Inc, replacing Bernard Puckett.
1993	Rolfe & Nolan Services Plc is to pay $1.675m — $465,000 in cash, the balance in 327,027 new shares — for the 80.1% of Brokerage Systems Inc, Chicago that it does not already own, and says it wants the company to meet the needs of the US operations of its European customers: it says it has already created automated links between its own system and the RISC system of Brokerage Systems Inc, and that the links are to be developed further.
1993	Compaq Corp formally inaugurated its new European distribution centre in Gorinchem, Netherlands, yesterday: it will be a focal point for distribution of Compaq products in Europe; total investment in the centre is $77m.
1993	Racal Electronics Plc reports a £750,000 contract to link 300 branches of W.H. Smith Group Plc's Our Price Music record and video stores in the UK via its managed network services: the initial contract runs for 30 months, and the system will poll every Our Price store nightly, transferring current stock, sales and other business information to and from the Smith host .
1993	2000 SALES RISE 50%
1993	2000 AG, Munich said its group sales rose 50% to the equivalent of $660m in the first five months of its current fiscal to September 30: for the full year it is going for 45% growth to $1,600m.
1993	Not surprisingly, Apple Inc doesn't think too much of that absurd ruling by the US International Trade Commission that Japanese vendors are dumping active matrix displays in the US: it says the ruling made no sense but vowed that the battle was not yet over —‘This was an ‘Alice in Wonderland’ decision, it defies logic,’Apple's director of government law Jim Burger told Reuter, noting that the only company actually making the things in the US wants the tariff lifted.
1993	PARTIAL BAN FOR IN-FLIGHT GAMES
1993	The Safety Commission of the International Air Transport Association, IATA, has recommended a partial ban aboard aircraft on electronic devices such as games made by Nintendo Co Ltd, to avoid interference with aircraft systems: it calls for a ban on the use of all passenger-carried electronic devices during taxi, takeoff, initial climb approach and landing in a confidential letter written by the committee and obtained by Reuters.
1993	Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Thinking Machines Corp has sold one of its new massively parallel CM-5 Scale 3 to US management and technology consultants Booz, Allen & Hamilton, McLean, Virginia: the machine will be used as a ‘computing powerhouse’ in the firm's System Resource Center; Booz Allen specialises in data analysis, scheduling and database applications for government and industry and is currently developing massively parallel applications for identifying fraud by analysing transaction data, and applications that analyse credit card sales to track customers' purchasing behaviour.
1993	The Galileo group of end users and system integrators pushing for a common graphical front-end on different types of are to meet during UniForum in San Francisco this month: a couple of the Baby Bells and Mitre Corp are said to be latest converts to the cause.
1993	SIEMENS NIXDORF SIGN 100 AS VAR
1993	Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG has signed up Reading, Berkshire-based 100 Ltd as a value-added reseller: 100 will supply Siemens Nixdorf's Beetle electronic point-of-sale terminals and personal bundled with its bespoke ‘news management’ software applications for confectioners, tobacconists and newsagents; the software deals with everything from the automation of newspaper and magazine orders to customer billing and the management of newspaper rounds; the agreement is part of Siemens Nixdorf's current strategy of targeting niche markets, and 100 claims to have over 80% of the total installed newsagents market in Europe.
1993	John Landry of Lotus Development Corp, Philippe Kahn of Borland International Inc and John Sculley of Apple Inc have also been booked to speak at the event.
1993	Funny how with all their and name-matching, these people never seem to come up with offers of anything one actually wants: Diners Club France has chosen Cardpac, Sema Group Plc's software package for managing credit cards, to support a ‘new commercial strategy and to develop its financial and non-financial services’ in a contract said to be worth between $1.45m and $1.8m: ‘We will use Cardpac to follow our clients’activity and to construct a database segmented by expenses, in order to understand client profiles better and to adapt our offers to their needs,’said Rolf Harff, managing director of Diners Club France.
1993	Xoren Computing Ltd, based in London, has announced version 2 of its Multi-Poll polling software package for a central host VAX : the software enables personal , Unix systems and VAXes at multiple remote branches to be telephone-polled by the central host, and is being targeted at vertical markets including retailing, distribution and banking; new enhancements include procedures for setting up site details, lists of files to be transferred, modem details and re-try procedures, and reports and performance statistics; no word yet on any prices for it.
1993	EVER-EXES FORM ALARIS TO DESIGN, MAKE LINES UNDER CONTRACT
1993	The restless shifting tides of the US industry ensure that people may at times be down, but few are out for long, and out of the gathering gloom of the Everex Systems Inc Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings has sprung a new company, also in Fremont, California, raring to make its mark.
1993	It's all very well for all the major manufacturers to say that all the money is in software and services these days, and that hardware is a commodity business, but if no-one wants to make the hardware, there's no industry.
1993	It was founded by two former Everex executives, Raymond Yu, 33 as president, and Philip Lau, 35, vice-president, as a design and manufacturing house to meet the needs of systems integrators and personal vendors that do not want to get involved in design and manufacturing.
1993	Alaris will start out with a product line of iAPX-86-based personal .
1993	A removable CD-ROM product for laptop is among a string of new products in development at SyQuest Technology Inc, founder and president Syed Iftikar told the Robertson Stephens & Co industry conference.
1993	And in Japan, where big business likes big — when it can afford them — IBM's prospects for 1993 are already making observers nervous.
1993	We agree heartily with those that assert that IBM's mid-range groups could embarrass and even hurt the company's mainframe division by fielding impressively more clever and vastly more efficient .
1993	But the preponderance of evidence about the business shows that the IBM name no longer has its old magic…and it hasn't for the past few years.
1993	It seems to have originated in the personal segment about the time Compaq proved it could supply 286 machines that were comparable to IBM's…and do so in a more timely fashion.
1993	Customers learned to think of more as platforms and less as exotic paraphernalia.
1993	Everyone knows there is a quality difference between name brand personal and generic machines but the premium put on the famous products has become very small indeed.
1993	Soon, a similar attitude will become commonplace in the commercial mid-range systems market, for the software vendors in the Unix market are just as committed as Microsoft in the personal world, if not quite as wealthy or ingenious.
1993	The bubble jet technology used by Canon Inc in the integral printer in its new BN22 BJ all-in-one notebook (CI No 2,114), was first patented by Canon in 1977.
1993	Intel Corp, as reported briefly, has announced separate agreements with Ameritech Inc and Bell Atlantic Corp to explore applications such as audio, data and video conferencing for personal users.
1993	The agreements, which have still to be firmed up, are intended to provide a framework for the companies to work together on integrating personal and phones, and to to enable real-time data conferencing over regular telephone lines, and videoconferencing over ISDN.
1993	Intel says that it will introduce personal add-in boards and software later this year, but refused to confirm a report in US PC Week that places the number of products at 20 and says that the first launch will be in April.
1993	Speakers included Dr Toshiyasu Kunii, Professor of Information and Science at the University of Tokyo, and Dick O'Donnell, director of information technologies at Harris Corp.
1993	The system was developed to work with multiple databases, including Ingres, Oracle and Btrieve, various local nets such as NetWare and TCP/IP, and a variety of .
1993	Sales fell 9.8% to $5,440m, and Bull blames the world economic slowdown, price wars in the personal market segment and the effects of structural changes in the industry — but those problems also affected Hewlett-Packard Co, ICL Plc and NCR Corp, all of which managed to remain profitable and to grow in 1991.
1993	COMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATES COMPLETES LOGICS ACQUISITION
1993	Alpharetta, Georgia-based Digital Communications Associates Inc has now completed its acquisition of Logics Ltd for about $8m cash and repayment of about $4m of shareholder debt; an earn-out agreement means that the total price can rise to as much as $12m.
1993	Microsoft Corp says it plans to lead a campaign against growing software piracy in Japan's personal industry, opening it with a letter to 50 hardware manufacturers and 290 software vendors in Japan alerting them to the problem — the Japanese are generally law-abiding, but Microsoft suspects many are unaware they are doing anything wrong copying software.
1993	IBM UK Ltd is likely to underwrite the construction by Mimtec Ltd, an electronics manufacturer owned by Murray International Holdings Plc of a new plant in Gourock, a few miles from IBM's Greenock personal factory: the plant would employ about 400 people assembling personal under contract to IBM; according to the Financial Times, some £9m of the cost of the plant would be met by an enterprise trust, with the rest from grants; IBM would ultimately take over the plant when the trust was paid off.
1993	NCR Corp's Microelectronic Products Division in Colorado Springs, Colorado has joined forces with Corel Corp, Ottawa, Ontario to support and advance SCSI disk controller technology: included are support for the interoperability of CorelSCSI software and NCR's Small System Interface Device Management System software, and CorelSCSI's use of the NCR 53C810 PCI/SCSI controller for Peripheral Component Interconnect machines.
1993	COMPAQ SETS NEW ONSLAUGHT IN PERSONAL PRICE WAR
1993	Anyone believing that the personal price wars have abated are in for a rude shock this week when Compaq Corp brings out a plethora of new machines, including its first stab at a multimedia model, and cuts prices significantly on its existing products.
1993	According to the Wall Street Journal, the company will come out with new notebook and desktop models, including three additions to the Contura family of notebook , as well as enhancements to the existing DeskPro and ProLinea desktop lines.
1993	Compaq is also expected to announce details of its first comprehensive mail-order campaign this week — it is preparing a catalogue in the US that will offer Compaq , monitors and printers, as well as other companies' software and peripherals, and has set up a telephone bank at its Houston campus to handle incoming calls on a toll-free telephone number, a move that will put Compaq into direct competition with fellow Texan, Austin-based Dell Corp.
1993	In the first such case in the UK, Leeds-based John Richardson Ltd has successfully argued that copyright should protect the look and feel of a program; the court decided that a plaintiff does not need to show source code has been copied to prove infringement, and that copying non-literal aspects of a program, such as structure and organisation, could well constitute infringement; the company's dispute arose with a former employee over rival applications aimed at the pharmaceutical industry; in the past, copyright cases have dealt exclusively with copying of actual program code.
1993	Milton Keynes, UK-based research company Butler Bloor Ltd's latest tome on the industry looks at networking: peer-to-peer networking, server-based networking on personal and Unix systems and network management systems.
1993	As far as personal local networking is concerned, ‘there is little to choose from between Microsoft Corp LAN Manager and Novell Inc NetWare, although NetWare has the edge in performance,’ the report concludes.
1993	However, even with the tens of millions of personal and workstations in use around the world, networking and network usage still hasn't taken off in a big way, the report says, because two things are needed: multi-tasking operating systems and the means to develop client-server applications.
1993	Client-server applications are becoming a reality with performance problems being addressed by faster , faster local network speeds and improving software.
1993	The arrival of desktop operating systems and client-server computing has coincided with the emergence of graphical interfaces, and now more often handle bit-mapped, rather than character-based environments.
1993	Global networks will be used by users first, the report concludes, while the owners of the highways — both public telephone companies and independent carriers — which charge for traffic, ‘cannot fail to profit.’
1993	Things may have gone a bit quiet on Intel Corp's joint venture with VLSI Technology Inc to develop chips that include iAPX-86 cores for use in handheld devices, but Intel says that the effort is quietly progressing and that early next year it expects to see manufacturers offering small, lightweight hand-held based on the new chips; Intel is currently preparing fully functional samples of the chips for shipment to manufacturers in the second half.
1993	PROFIT DECLINE FOR JAPANESE MANUFACTURERS
1993	The major Japanese manufacturers expect to report sharp declines in profits for fiscal 1993, Associated Press reports from Tokyo: five companies — Hitachi Ltd, Toshiba Corp, Mitsubishi Electric Co, NEC Corp and Fujitsu Ltd are expected to report a combined 72% decline in profits, according to the Nippon Keizai Shimbun, the second consecutive drop in yearly earnings among the five firms, which collectively saw a 59% drop last year from the prior year; NEC has revised its expected loss upwards to $370m from $77m forecast in November, Hitachi expects earnings to fall 33% to $733m, Fujitsu forecast its first loss at $8.6m, and Mitsubishi Electric expects a 30% fall in profit to $336m; Sony Corp, NEC and Hitachi are considering raising export prices to compensate for a 6.5% appreciation of the yen against the dollar in the past month, which has begun to erode Japanese exporters' profits.
1993	IBM Corp has agreed to pay the US government $14.8m to settle that potential False Claims Act civil suit after IBM admitted to providing reconditioned or remanufactured equipment to the US government between 1980 and 1990, contrary to contract provisions — under the contract, IBM was required to notify the government prior to delivery of anything other than new equipment, and the investigation revealed that IBM delivered approximately 15,000 reconditioned or remanufactured machines to the government; IBM voluntarily owned up that it might not have fulfilled its obligations under the contract after conducting an internal audit.
1993	Apple Inc previewed its forthcoming Macintosh Application Services software for the PowerPC RISC chip in Paris yesterday, at the launch of the new PowerPC supporters club Power Open Association Inc.
1993	Meanwhile the PowerOpen Association Inc unveiled itself with five sponsor members — Apple Inc, Compagnie des Machines Bull SA, IBM Corp, Motorola Inc and Thomson-CSF SA — spending an initial $750,000 and annual $250,000 to fund the Billerica, Massachusetts-based outfit.
1993	Irvine, California-based technology holding company Helionetics Inc has signed a binding letter of intent to acquire Sentinel Systems Inc, which is designing the Sentry-E fault-tolerant in Horsham, Pennsylvania and has a ‘major telecommunications company’ lined up as its first customer.
1993	The system is hardware compatible with any Intel iAPX-86-based and uses the EISA bus; it is designed to run under the Unix, OS/2 and Pick operating systems.
1993	Compaq Corp accompanied its new product blitz yesterday with the news that it will no longer publish suggested list prices for its machines in the US — but unlike IBM Corp with its mainframes, it's not tearing up the price list.
1993	The company's first entry for the embryonic multimedia market is the ProLinea CDS, which comes with a CD-ROM drive, 16-bit sound board, modem, external speakers and four CD-ROM titles at $1,700.
1993	Recognition Research for example has a Windows-based package, Autonets, which can run on a personal .
1993	This replaces the existing MS-DOS-based control program which enables network administrators to manage the bridge from a personal workstation connected to the Token Ring network.
1993	The system comprises a floor standing tower of vector parallel processors that work with a Fujitsu flat-bed scanner and output to a personal or departmental minicomputer.
1993	Tandem Inc's San Jose-based Ungermann Bass Inc has revealed details of its Virtual Network Architecture, with a promise that the first products will appear in June.
1993	Existing partners Wellfleet Communications Inc and Advanced Communications Inc jumped in last week to give their blessings, although neither could say exactly what supporting the technology will require of them.
1993	Language Research Inc has turned in fourth quarter net profits up 3,244.3% at $3.5m, after $1.1m gains from payment of debt this time and $1m restructuring charges last time, on turnover that fell by 1.4% at $31.2m; net profit for the year to December 31 was up 219.2% at $12.3m, after $5.7m gains from the cumulative effect of an accounting change, on turnover that fell by 4.1% to $111m.
1993	Systems & Technology Inc has reported first quarter net profit down 17.4% at $1.2m, after $384,000 tax credits this time and $399,000 last time, on turnover that rose 36.1% to $26.9m.
1993	Wallace Services Inc saw second quarter net profits up 6.1% at $11.6m, on turnover up 4.4% at $138.1m; mid-term net rose 7.3% to $21.6m, on turnover up 5.6% at $272m.
1993	Nothing was mentioned at the PowerOpen event yesterday (see front), but it turns out that some of the enabling technology for Apple Inc's Macintosh Application Services software for the PowerPC came from AT&T Co-backed start-up firm Echo Logic Inc (CI No 1,926).
1993	Ask Systems Inc has expanded its Manman/X business information system to include support for the Oracle database and says it has signed a worldwide pact with Oracle Systems Corp to become an Oracle Business Alliance Partner: the two will continue to offer their respective products directly to mutual customers, and maintain separate but co-ordinated support staffs.
1993	Barclays Bank Plc has given Ask Systems Inc an $8m contract for Ingres relational database licences: the agreement covers licences for further deployment of existing Ingres applications worldwide, and their deployment in its UK branches; the applications, developed using Ingres/Windows4GL, will be accessed from X-terminals connected to Ingres databases on Unix servers — the bank is using RS/6000s — linked back to the central corporate data held in DB2 databases on IBM Corp mainframes.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has a two-year contract with a one-year further option from Boeing Co's Boeing Services unit to supply the Boeing Commercial Airplane Group's line-of-business application servers: the Unix servers will be distributed throughout the unit's office and manufacturing locations; terms were not disclosed.
1993	Dell Corp responded to Compaq Corp's multimedia machine (see front) with two new multimedia personal of its own, the Valuestation 386 and 486, priced at $1,500 and $2,000: the smaller one is based on the Dell System 333s/L, while the Valuestation 486 is based on the Dell snap-together personal ; they a factory installed Sound Blaster Pro or Sound Blaster 16 audio board, a CD-ROM drive, speakers, a microphone, applications installed on the hard drive, and CD-based software applications.
1993	Personal manufacturer TSL Holdings Inc has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in US Bankruptcy Court in Santa Barbara.
1993	Apple Inc's Claris Corp says it will ship ClarisWorks 2.0 in the US later this month at the same $300 price as the original version, saying the new version adds three new capabilities and over 300 productivity enhancements.
1993	Texas Instruments Inc says it has resolved all outstanding litigation over its personal system patents, winning agreement with Daewoo Electronics Co, Daewoo Telecom Co and Dell Corp for patent cross-licensing agreements.
1993	Unisys Corp added five models to its PW2 Advantage line of personal : they incorporate a local bus, combined with an integrated Enhanced VGA graphics accelerator and cost from $1,200 to $2,250.
1993	Compaq Corp and its 80486 interests, not any technical or manufacturing woes, are behind Intel Corp's decision to delay the Pentium until May, BusinessWeek claims: well, schucks, that's not what we hear — our sources, who are cooling their heels waiting for chips, continue to think that Intel is having problems making the parts in quantity; given the new timetable, it still says samples should be more available than they are.
1993	After two months of production delays due to‘unprecedented demand’ and a shortage of chips, Elonex Plc has churned out 17 new models of personal from its factory in North London: these comprise eight types of upgradable Intel Corp 80486-based desktops with local video bus — price ranges from £1,100 to £1,750; two higher entry-level desktops based on Intel's 80486SX-25 chip — the PC-425XM Entry Level and the PC-425XB Entry Level start at £1,100 and will replace the former 20MHz PC-420X Entry Level models; four types of WS-400 upgradeable LAN workstations based on processors ranging from 25MHz 80486SX to 66MHz 80486DX2 with Ethernet modules based on Advanced Micro Devices Inc PCnet AT chip set; a Token Ring module will be released in due course using the IBM Corp Tropic chip set; prices start at £950; and three fault-tolerant mirrored file server systems based on Novell Inc NetWare SFT III v3.11 are planned; Elonex also intends to ship modular notebook personal this month.
1993	Mountain View, California-based Starlight Networks Inc has announced it is to support the new Ungermann-Bass Inc DragonSwitch on its StarWorks video networking software: the software runs on an 80486 EISA , giving it video application server capabilities, and supports up to 20 users.
1993	JSB Systems Ltd last week announced from its Scotts Valley, California base that it has launched MultiView Desktop for Microsoft Corp's Windows NT with a view to helping the Microsoft challenger co-exist with Unix: the Macclesfield company says the product removes the potential for conflict by enabling users to run their existing Unix applications integrated with NT's presentation capabilities, all the while preserving Unix as the central server system.
1993	The industry equivalent of ‘Small earthquake in Chile’…
1993	‘The Michelangelo virus that received worldwide attention last year is expected to cause even fewer problems this Saturday than it did when it struck last year, a team of IBM researchers said’.
1993	Advanced RISC Machines Ltd, Cambridge, UK has licensed Apple Inc's partner on the Newton personal digital assistant, Sharp Corp to to manufacture and market its ARM processors and associated products on a worldwide basis.
1993	Advanced RISC has also won a new shareholder, Nippon Investment & Finance Co of Tokyo, which is putting up £650,000 for an undisclosed stake in the company alongside Acorn Group Plc, Apple and VLSI Technology Inc.
1993	‘Galway's worst economic nightmare came true when US group Digital decided to close its manufacturing plant in this thriving city on Ireland's Atlantic coast,’ wrote Reuters reporter Paul Majendie.
1993	After all, Wang Laboratories Inc and Prime Inc are just two of a string of companies that have opened and later closed in the south of Ireland, but Amdahl Corp is still there, Intel Corp is investing heavily and expanding, 3Com Corp and Cabletron Systems Inc are among the new arrivals, and several other chipmakers are still doing assembly and Sun Microsystems Inc has just followed ICL Plc and Sema Group Plc in establishing software development operations in the Dublin area.
1993	And a handful of critics is beginning to wonder whether Ireland has not concentrated a little too hard on attracting inward investors at the expense of building a strong home-grown and electronics industry: after all, the policy of rallying all centres of higher education to turn out highly-skilled hardware and software engineers has been a great success, but shouldn't more of those people be working for Irish companies?
1993	After all, at the most basic level, Ireland should be a superb base for establishing a rock-bottom high volume personal manufacturing business that could knock spots off Tulip NV with its lower costs and be challenging Elonex Plc and the tartan Americans led by Compaq Corp and IBM Corp, not to mention Ireland's own foster-sons Dell Corp in Limerick, and Apple Inc in Cork.
1993	By 1995, Deutsche Bundespost Telekom intends a root-and-branch reorganisation of its data processing activities, by consolidating its 36 existing centres into six, and condensing its 45 applications development centres down to five.
1993	According to Computerwoche, Telekom also aims to provide its 100,000 users with standardised operating systems, databases, development methods, and network products.
1993	VL Info, the German post office union magazine, reported that Telekom will establish the strategic centres in Bamberg, Bielefeld, Goppingen, Kiel, Krefeld, and Magdeburg.
1993	Furthermore, Telekom is reportedly keen that its 108 existing data processing departments, including the 36 centres, provide local information processing services.
1993	While EDS/GFI boasts expertise in six different hardware environments — IBM Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co, Compagnie des Machines Bull SA, Unisys Corp and Tandem Inc, 58% of its revenue comes from contracts involving IBM systems.
1993	Dell Corp has reported that fourth quarter net profits soared 102.9% at $31.3m on turnover that leaped 117.1% at $620.3m; net profit for the year to was up 99.6% at $101.6m on turnover up 126.3% to $2,014m.
1993	Commenting on its fiscal 1993 figures, which saw the company soar through the $2,000m sales mark for the year (see page five) Dell Corp said cash and investments totalled $95m at January 31, down from $155m at the beginning of the fiscal year, but the company added a new $200m revolving line of credit with nine multinational banks; it invested $47m in capital expenditures over the course of the year, primarily in telecommunications, facilities expansion and systems.
1993	Siemens AG is disputing a politically-sensitive article carried in The Wall Street Journal Europe on February 16, which claims that, for the first time, a top Siemens manager, Heinrich von Pierer, said he was looking for a strategic partner for ailing Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG (CI No 2,117): Pierer allegedly stated that he was not interested in a ‘one-sided partnership’, rather in one that involved ‘real co-operation’; according to Computerwoche, Siemens denied any claim that it was seeking shelter for Siemens Nixdorf under the umbrella of Japanese or US competitors, ‘like the other three European firms’; the Journal's London office says the paper is sticking by its story.
1993	PARIS LAUNCH FOR ICL PERSONAL
1993	ICL Plc chose Paris for the launch of what it called its biggest ever collection of personal and related products yesterday: the new ErgoLite desktops and notebooks and Ergo-Pro notebook to ErgoView terminals which come with a variety of ‘personalities’ or emulations — no prizes for guessing that the company is pushing the new product line's ergonomic design.
1993	Microsoft Corp chairman Bill Gates says he is working with Time Warner Inc to bring experimental two-way television to some 5,000 Florida homes by early 1994, the Orlando Sentinel reported, adding that the two companies are working toward making such two-way systems more user-friendly; Gates said that he studied several other experimental two-way television systems but chose the Orlando project because it seemed to offer the best interactive possibilities of ordering movies, making financial transactions and ‘creating a window into the world of information’.
1993	As from February 1, ICPI Ltd, a wholly-owned IBM Corp subsidiary, began selling its personal under the Ambra name again in Germany: according to Computerwoche, at the end of last year, the company's German distributors were instructed to take the IBM-compatible boxes off the market because the Ambra tradename was protected, and the company has only now been able to regularise the situation; ICPI reckons it will command a 5% share of the German market by the end of 1993; sales will now be expanded into other countries, including the Far East and Africa.
1993	Clear seems to be all the rage in the US these days, what with Miller Brewing coming out with a beer that not only tastes watered, but actually looks like water, a Clear Tab from the Coca Cola Co and Pepsico pushing something called Pepsi Crystal, so it's nice to see that IBM Corp being right up there with the trend — enter one of those hallowed and long-standing rooms these days and like as not you'll be able to see right across it with no Big Iron to impede the view — the transparent mainframe.
1993	IBM Corp's IBM Personal Co is determined to be recognised as a genuine contender in the mass market, and to demonstrate its commitment it immediately responded to the Compaq Corp price cuts with cuts of its own in the US.
1993	Hitachi Ltd plans to add IBM's low-cost desktop personal to its product line under the Hitachi name to fill customer demand for a new generation of cheap machines.
1993	Concurrent Corp of Oceanport, New Jersey says its OS/32 and OS/32 MTM real time operating systems passed US Defense Department criteria for Trusted status at C2.
1993	Micro Focus Plc makes a very good living out of a programming language that many believed would be long dead by now yet still shows no signs of fading away — but if object-oriented programming fulfils its promise and sweeps away the paraphernalia of the first 35 years of the industry, Micro Focus is going to have to be ready and waiting if it is not going to be swept away too.
1993	The hardware vendors behind the move, only a slice of Sparc International's 34-odd ironmongers, are described as early leaders in System V.4 and include Amdahl Corp, Cray Research Inc, Fujitsu Ltd, HaL Systems Inc, Matsushita Electric Ltd, Solbourne Inc, Sun, Tatung Science & Technology Inc and Hyundai America's Axil Workstations.
1993	Initial support is coming from Accelr8 Technology Inc, Elan Corp, Frame Technology Corp, Hunter Systems Inc, Lotus Development Corp, Oracle Corp, Objectivity Inc, Pure Software Inc, Quorum Software Systems Inc, SAS Institute Inc and Unidata Inc.
1993	The speech processing market continued its wander towards the commodity end of the industry last week when the Delrina Technology Inc subsidiary of Delrina Corp, Toronto said that it would be adding speech extensions to its WinFax personal facsimile software.
1993	All messages are saved to the .
1993	The Apple Inc Cat-in-the-Hat project, which will see the Apple ToolBox, Apple's crown jewels and the source of the Macintosh under interface, implemented for IBM Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co and Sun Microsystems Inc systems, is thought to be nearing completion.
1993	The Tucson, Arizona company has also added a remote server management feature, enabling users to edit a remote server's accounts or resources, and a batch de-spooling feature enabling users to de-spool commands to a remote server from a local personal and specify when these commands should be executed.
1993	On performance, LANcache, the disk caching program included with the new version, enables users to cache multiple drives in a single personal , and specify different LANcache sizes for MS-DOS and Windows, while the company says it can be configured to use just 10Kb of memory.
1993	For Windows users, the company has introduced the LANtastic for Windows Scrapbook (enabling users to share text, graphics and sound items), and — via the Artisoft Sounding Board — voice chat for communications between two personal , and LAN Radio for broadcasting messages across the network.
1993	The existence of Rios 2 as a separate development from the IBM-Motorola Inc-Apple Inc collaboration on Rios 1 or PowerPC, was confirmed at IBM's extension of the RS/6000 line last month.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp's Sunnyvale, California-based massively parallel systems partner MasPar Corp is planning to introduce upgrade boards for its MP-2 massively parallel next month.
1993	FACING UP TO THE PROBLEM OF WHERE OLD GO WHEN THEY DIE
1993	The pressure on manufacturers to provide for the proper disposal of used equipment, which goes beyond dumping it into approved landfills, continues to build from both within and without the industry.
1993	Northern Europe certainly leads the world in confronting the intractable problem of recycling used .
1993	A law to require any manufacturer selling in Germany to take back its equipment for reuse or recycling is being drafted for next year, while governments in Denmark and Sweden are considering legislation this spring for mandating some kind of electronics scrap recycling program.
1993	The market has begun to respond by sprouting independent recycling companies.
1993	Crec (say it ‘see-wreck’ for ‘recycling’) is a private concern that intends to remain private, although it gets government assistance with its factory rent and worker salaries during its start-up phase.
1993	After breaking the down into its hazardous and raw materials, ‘the only thing we dispose of is between 3% and 5% of the 's total weight,’ says founder and marketing director Peter Domini.
1993	Crec charges its clients 82 cents per kilogram to dismantle in a factory once used to manufacture them.
1993	It also has a joint venture with a waste management company, which delivers Crec it collects from municipal waste sites and which Crec, in turn, pays to dispose the extracted hazardous materials.
1993	‘The unfortunate reality is that there's not enough money in a [used]even to break even.
1993	Even though there is gold, silver and cadmium, there just isn't enough to offset the cost of disassembly and melting down,’ says Omar Khalifa, Apple Inc's manager of environmental technology.
1993	Up to now, the manufacturers had not been accounting for dismantling personal in their construction, so it's still a very difficult process.
1993	He adds that only two companies so far have sent manufacturing groups out to see what Crec is doing — IBM Corp, and ICL Plc, which has really turned on to ergonomics and the environment since it bought Nokia Data AB.
1993	FRENCH BUSINESS EXPECTS TO INCREASE SPENDING 2.5% THIS YEAR
1993	TMO says the survey is based on information from a study called ‘Observatoire Permanent des Etablissements,’ which is conducted every two years among 7,000 enterprises, and from annual surveys of its large and medium-sized accounts and of distributors.
1993	Now that circumstances have conspired to make an immediate share issue an unattractive option, Dell Corp is looking around for the best alternative to raise cash to finance its soaraway growth.
1993	Separately, Dell investor relations director Donald Collis told Reuter that the company planned no immediate overall price cuts in response to the cuts announced on Monday by Compaq Corp.
1993	Outsourcing Inc has reported first quarter net profit up 64.3% at $196,512m, on turnover up 1.2% to $2.5m.
1993	DataSouth Inc has turned in third quarter net profits down 26.4% at $167,000, on turnover up 1.7% at $4m; net profit for the nine months stood at $559,000 against losses of $404,000 last time, on turnover that rose 10.6% to $11.9m.
1993	Tandy Corp broke ground in Dallas on Tuesday for its third Incredible Universe megastores, and says it plans to open 14 more US-wide over the next three years: the first two are in Wilsonville, Oregon and Arlington, Texas; the one in Dallas will be the biggest yet.
1993	Tandem Inc, Cupertino is moving its Asian headquarters to Singapore from California later this month, specialising in telecommunications, banking and finance; it already has a joint software company, Twin-Soft Asia Pte Ltd, with Singapore Systems Ltd which it formed last year, and it is planning to launch a screen-based smart telephone that can access host using a telephone handset, a small display, a programmable microprocessor and a modem, in Singapore next month.
1993	Geac Corp Ltd, Toronto completed its previously announced purchase of Concord Management Systems Inc of Florida, one of North America's biggest developers of software for construction firms, and has also bought Mentat Systems Pty Ltd whose systems are installed in more than 60 firms in Australia and New Zealand; the acquisitions cost the equivalent of $4m and add some $10m annual sales.
1993	PETROLEAS MEXICANOS ORDER C3 SERIES
1993	Convex Corp reports that Petroleos Mexicanos has ordered three C3 Series minisupercomputers to run compute-intensive petroleum exploration and production software — two compact, portable C3410/ES systems will be used by Pemex's Exploration and Production unit to run seismic processing applications at exploration sites and a four-processor C3440 at Ciudad del Carmen will be used by 200 scientists and engineers in Production Management for reservoir modelling and database applications.
1993	NCR Corp reports that the city of San Antonio, Texas, tenth largest in the US, would you believe, has gone for NCR multiprocessing servers to facilitate the flow of information through its emergency services department — two NCR 3450 multiprocessors will function as the backbone of the city's dispatch system; no value given.
1993	Mail order retailer and manufacturer Chipboards Plc has called in the receivers, Robson Rhodes, which are now trying to sell the combined or separate businesses and assets of the group as a going concern: the company comprises a Chipboards division, which sells clone personal , upgrades and peripherals by mail order and has a turnover of £8m; and a Chipset division, which manufactures high-end clone personal such as file servers, Unix machines and workstations for computer-aided design and generates £3m in revenues; Chipboards was set up in 1987, is based in Bisley, near Woking, Surrey, and claims to have a customer base of 20,000.
1993	The first high-speed digital leased circuit between Peking and Hong Kong has gone into service, Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd said: the 64Kbps circuit was commissioned as a result of co-operation between Hong Kong Telecom and Beijing Telecommunications Administration; the China Hewlett-Packard joint venture between Hewlett-Packard Co and a Chinese partner, is leasing the circuit to connect its internal voice and data network with its US co-parent's global network via its Asia-Pacific regional headquarters in Hong Kong; the company also gave Hong Kong Telecom an order to upgrade the leased circuit, which connects its Shenzhen plant with Hong Kong hub to 64Kbps.
1993	The Hewlett-Packard Co Users European Conference takes place at Birmingham's International Convention Centre between June 27 and 30: keynote speakers at the meeting include former British Prime Minister Edward Heath, ‘Father of the Precision Architecture RISC’ Joel Birmbaum, and Microsoft Corp's European managing director.
1993	InformationWeek quotes Taligent Inc chief executive Joe Guglielmi as saying his folks have a version of its object-oriented operating system up and running on an Apple Inc Macintosh Quadra: Taligent, which intends publishing specifications this year followed by a developer's kit, has also written some low-level applications for the system along the lines of Apple's MacDraw — but the final system is not due until 1995.
1993	NCR Corp has released version 2.1 of its Cooperation integrated software environment, for client-server environments, which runs on System 3000 machines and personal clients; it supports Windows 3.1, Lotus Development Corp Notes and Hewlett-Packard Co's NewWave 4.1; a 10-user licence is £3,500.
1993	Datapro Canada, Unican and UniForum Canada are holding the Fourth Annual Executive Symposium on Open Systems & Client/Server Computing at the Sheraton Centre in Toronto April 6 to 8: they've rounded up people like Doug Michels of Santa Cruz Operation Inc, Roel Pieper of Unix System Laboratories Inc, John Paul of Compaq Corp, Jon Gossels of the Open Software Foundation, Bill O'Shea of NCR Corp, Heinz Lycklama of Open Systems Technology Associates and George Shaffner of X/Open Co Ltd to speak.
1993	In the UK, Bristol-based Ampersand Systems Ltd is to market VMark Software Inc's PI/Open database — formerly owned by Prime Inc's Computervision outfit — to Prime 50 series minicomputer users.
1993	The impression of IBM Corp, Digital Equipment Corp and their ilk lining up like lambs to the slaughter may seem hard to credit for customers that have been driven to accept very hard bargains, but that is what appears to be happening with this Gadarene rush by the major manufacturers to get into the facilities management business in the US: we understand that many of the savings and loans, banks and securities houses that have gratefully accepted offers by the majors to run their data processing operations for them has little to do with saving money over the term of the contract, much to do with their urgent need for cash upfront to repair their ravaged balance sheets — the key attraction of the deals being the money paid at the start of the contract for the data processing facilities; if the customers are in that much need of cash, chances are that many of them won't be around in five or seven years' time, so that having spent good money for they don't need, the facilities managers will be left with idle installations and contracts with no residual value.
1993	Apple Inc's first telephony partner on its Newton Personal Digital Assistant is Siemens Private Communication Systems Group, and Siemens and its Rolm unit will work to equip business and consumer telephones with Newton technology, and also develop wireless technology, integrated speech and data systems for call centres, and personal productivity offerings.
1993	The only change Pache indicated in Lorentz's strategy was an allusion to studying an ‘expanded’ alliance with existing shareholder NEC Corp. to share the costs of either personal development or manufacture.
1993	An insider at Zenith noted that the company ‘is really a sitting duck target, with highly visible personal products in a relentless price war, which is also an acquired division with a different brand name that is not French.’
1993	The client component is scheduled to ship in June with support for Microsoft Corp Windows, Apple Inc Macintosh and the Open Software Foundation's OSF/Motif.
1993	X operating system environment, initially handling development of device drivers and doing certification for European OEM partners — especially for customers of its forthcoming Intel Corp iAPX-86 implementation — such as ICL Plc, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and local Dell Corp operations.
1993	Painting his charter with a very broad brush, he talked vaguely about software in aid of media convergence, interoperability and data exchange in all forms of digital devices including facsimiles, ISDN, CD-ROMs, digital television, radios, satellites and .
1993	Here, setbacks in the development of the telecommunications side of the business, along with declining demand among vendors, added to the costs already incurred by efforts to improve marketing and sales.
1993	As in the US, the sector shrunk, but the government and finance sectors grew.
1993	The integration of Kode's maintenance arm, Kode and DCM Services was completed ahead of schedule, and activities have now been expanded to cover project management, systems support and planning (CI No 2,107).
1993	The acquisition more than doubled turnover at the subsidiary, helped by cost savings resulting from the closure of Kode administrative office in Swindon and the subsequent absorption of operations into DCM's offices in Hitchin.
1993	Another name can be crossed firmly off the IBM Corp list: John Sculley, chairman of Apple Inc has now gone on the record saying ‘I would like to respond to the persistent rumours that I might leave Apple and go to IBM — I have told Apple's board of directors and our executive management team that I am not available or interested in being chief executive of IBM; I believe Apple has a tremendous opportunity to be extremely successful in the years ahead, and Apple will be the most important innovator and leader in the industry; 10 years ago this April I signed up to do a job, and there is still a lot that I would like to accomplish with all of us; ‘I hope this statement will put to rest the speculation that I might go to IBM, and also serve as a clear message of the confidence that I have in Apple,’ he declared.
1993	Siemens AG held its annual meeting in Munich yesterday, and according to Reuter said it expects to cut the losses at its and semiconductor divisions this year, although it was still not satisfied with the results of the two divisions: chairman Heinrich von Pierer told the meeting that the combined losses of Siemens Nixdorf and the semiconductor division last fiscal was over $625m, casting doubt on whether cost-cutting programmes already announced would suffice; at Siemens Nixdorf, there is now a stronger focus on products with a bright future and a reduction in the amount of work done in-house.
1993	Users of the ‘Pentium-ready’ personal systems that have been on sale since the middle of last year — Intel Corp 80486-based boxes with a Pentium upgrade socket — won't get their OverDrive Pentiums, code-named the P24T, which plugs into the socket, until 1994.
1993	Although NeXT Inc has stumbled, Data General Corp, which last year signed to resell NeXT boxes, will maintain a relationship with Steve Jobs' company — it says it was always more interested in the NeXTstep software anyway, and it will market the environment on the 80486 personal it buys OEM once it becomes available.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp has packaged a cost-optimised 100 MIPS 10 Watt Alpha chip, some DECelx and OSF/1 real-time software and services to attract OEM customers in the embedded market, and hardware samples are promised for the summer; the chips will also be used in single-board , the company says.
1993	There are one or two awards that not everyone would bust a gut to win, but IBM Corp's Personal Software Products unit is proud to announce that the OS/2 2.0 operating system has been awarded the Language Jolt Cola Award for Product Excellence: we're advised that Jolt is the cola that has five times the sugar and twice the caffeine of regular cola — and the connection with ?
1993	Internal chip design, which began at the same time that HaL Systems Inc started developing its own proprietary 64-bit Sparc chips, aims at producing a 500MHz microprocessor by the fourth quarter of 1996.
1993	Seven products will be available to enable AViiONs to share system resources, applications and processing power across networks of heterogeneous and they will be based on Version 1.0.2.
1993	Following the Hewlett-Packard Co and L M Ericsson Telefon AB joint venture, Northern Telecom Ltd and Tandem Inc have announced a global alliance to develop and market telecommunications systems with Intelligent Network capabilities (CI No 2,116).
1993	Equinox Systems Inc, making input-output controller boards for multi-user in Fort Lauderdale, Florida has filed to go public with an initial offer of up to 1.5m shares, 1m of them new, at a target price of $11.50 to $13.50 a share to raise some $12m for working capital.
1993	Hit by relentless price competition and slumping business conditions, Fujitsu Ltd on Friday forecast that for fiscal 1993 to March 31, it would report its first loss since it was first listed in Tokyo in 1949: it sees a group net loss of $322m and a current loss of $169m for the year, against net profit of $103m and current profit of $437m last fiscal — current profit includes gains and losses made on investments in stocks and bonds and sundry profits and losses from other non-operating activities; ‘Customers expect lower prices,’ said Mike Beirne, a Fujitsu spokesman —‘the price competition goes from the price war in personal right up to mainframes;’the company acknowledges that losses are likely to continue into the first six months of its new year.
1993	Compaq Corp will begin direct sales — mail order — of its personal on March 22: the ProLinea, Deskpro and Contura lines and various applications will be sold by phone: it will sell via a toll-free telephone number and through a direct mail campaign aimed at US small business — it is mailing over 2m of its catalogues.
1993	Irvine, California-based Advanced Logic Research Inc has cut prices across its entire line of desktop products in response to Compaq Corp's price cuts last week: the reductions are intended to position key models with a higher feature set at prices 10% to 20% less than Compaq's comparable models.
1993	An Intel Corp observer says the company is really competing against system makers IBM Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co, Digital Equipment Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc, and maybe MIPS Technologies Inc: his point is that Intel is bound to a policy of moving more and more of the system onto its chips until all the hardware vendor will be adding is a couple of leads; he also says Intel is very conscious of the potentials of the and communications tie-up and is dreaming of a worldwide network data repository under its thumb; strategic alliances came up and so did the name AT&T Co, and the words ‘information utility’.
1993	Ceramic chip packaging specialist and OEM printer and personal manufacturer Kyocera Corp says it plans to cut its total workforce to 13,000 by shedding 1,000 jobs over the next three years to cope with a possible rise in the yen to 100 to the dollar; the cuts will be achieved by reducing annual recruitment of graduates and normal retirement of some 700 a year, the company explained.
1993	Newbridge Networks Corp, Ottawa, Ontario last week introduced a new Vivid — for Video Voice Image Data — line of Asynchronous Transfer Mode local area network products — the Vivid ATM Hub, Ridges, LAN Service Units, ATM Network Interface Cards for workstations and personal and Route Server connection management and routing software; the Canadian also signed a sales and marketing pact with Xerox Corp's Xerox Network & Professional Services division covering the Newbridge MainStreet wide area networking equipment and the new Vivid ATM local net line.
1993	Tyne & Wear Development Corp in the UK is using a specially adapted version of the Superscape virtual reality software from Aldermaston, Berkshire-based Dimension International Ltd to enable planners and the public to ‘walk through’ its £180m redevelopment scheme for the City of Newcastle Upon Tyne's East Quayside: Newcastle-based Real Time Design Ltd, which is implementing the system, has already created the base landscape and a few of the proposed buildings in the virtual world, and will continue to add new ones based on architects drawings and aided design-generated images; using the system, it will be possible to simulate, in real time, the experience of driving on the roads between the new buildings, ensuring that the Tyne Bridge is visible at some locations.
1993	The Guardian newspaper, in partnership with the Royal Institute for the Blind and associates has launched a system that enables the entire editorial text of the newspaper to be transmitted nightly via Teletext on Channel 4 television's frequencies to a personal , which can read the text in a synthesised voice to blind and partially sighted people: those that can afford an £8,000 Braille terminal can also read the text that way, and it can also be displayed in large print on the screen for those with poor sight; the text is structured so that readers can scan the headlines and choose the items that interest them; the paper will be marketed, serviced and supported by Electronic Text Networks Associates Ltd of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, a commercial venture one third owned by the Guardian and the charity; the other shareholders, each with a third share, are Aptech Ltd, which specialises in aids for disabled people, and Intelligent Research Ltd, which made the hardware for the system; the decoder board for the personal is £400, plus about £500 for a speech synthesizer; the annual subscription to the electronic paper is £160 and the partners hope that other papers will decide to go onto the system.
1993	The company says it has worked closely with Microsoft Corp to ensure that the Kittyhawks are compatible with MS-DOS Version 6.0 and its 2:1 data-compression ratio, and sees the drive being used in digital cameras as well as subnotebook .
1993	Cap Gemini Sogeti SA said yesterday that it was making the offer for the remaining 28.8% of London W-based software and services company Hoskyns Group Plc as it promised when it bought its majority stake from GEC Siemens Plc.
1993	Look out for the Unisys Corp stand this week, it should be demonstrating the U6000 personal , its new Unix desktop system configured for Univel Inc's UnixWare — but only behind the scenes.
1993	ANDROMEDA ADD CACHE MEMORY TO SCSI-BASED
1993	Canoga Park, California-based Andromeda Systems Inc will demonstrate the SCSI CacheMaster, its software that adds cache memory and RAM to SCSI-based : CacheMaster resides between the SCSI host adaptor and the tape and optical devices and comes in 2Mb to 320Mb memory sizes at $250 per Megabyte.
1993	AST Research Inc has launched its new Premmia range of high-end personal for the corporate market (CI No 2,118), which it claims are better systems than either IBM Corp's or Compaq Corp's.
1993	According to corporate sales manager Neville Street, AST has not suffered in any way as a result of the personal price war.
1993	The user can also lock out his floppy disk drive or input-output port, if the 's log-in count indicates someone has been using it illicitly.
1993	Finally, a network administrator can identify a particular via user-defined asset tags and factory-installed serial numbers stored in read-only memory in the machine's motherboard, so as either to monitor or upgrade the box over a network, using FlashBIOS.
1993	They say what they're seeing from SunSoft Inc right now is a very commercially packaged product that looks to be pretty much a full-blown release but lacks personal compatibility or the ability to run Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix software because of the extensions.
1993	Ask Systems Inc has formed a new software development unit to open up its ManMan/X manufacturing development environment and Ingres database and tool set for use in conjunction with alien systems.
1993	The new division joins Ask's existing businesses, Ingres, Ask Systems and Data 3 Systems.
1993	Multinational traffic and field data systems group Peek Plc, which also owns Husky Ltd, has turned in what chairman Ken Maud describes as a ‘satisfactory performance in a tough economic environment.
1993	Net balances now stand at £11.4m. 1992 saw Peek ridding itself of Greenpar Connectors Ltd and its distribution company Dubilier GmbH; of the US utility sales and service business of Husky ; and the remaining aerospace division of New York-based Instruments Corp.
1993	During 1992, Husky introduced two new handheld : the MS-DOS based FS/2 and Hunter 16/80.
1993	It blames heavy competition and the international economic slowdown for the losses, but says it is confident of surviving the crisis in the sector.
1993	The firm, which will do boards for a whole range of products including , telecommunications and satellite receiver and industrial control system products is looking for further partnerships in Taiwan, Japan and the US and is three months away from announcing its next deal.
1993	The Univel Inc joint venture of Novell Inc and soon-to-be-Novell subsidiary Unix System Laboratories Inc yesterday went onto the desktop Unix warpath by cutting prices for the desktop and application server versions of UnixWare, ‘taking away one of the few remaining constraints to the rapid market adoption of Unix system as a client-server system’ for iAPX-86-based .
1993	Under its agreement with IBM Corp, Intel Corp can only sit back and watch while IBM stuffs its versions of the Intel iAPX-86 microprocessor family into boards and sells them on the OEM market, and yesterday, IBM's Electronic Card Assembly & Test Plant in Charlotte, North Carolina announced contracts totalling $344m to manufacture personal planar boards for two California firms: Eteq Microsystems Inc in Milpitas and that new company, Alaris Inc, just formed by those Everexes in Fremont (CI No 2,121).
1993	Amstrad Plc's Personal Digital Assistant due for launch on Thursday sounds like a pretty hot property: the Daily Mail has had a sneak preview, and says that it is a £300 device that fits a jacket pocket with a pen-enabled screen on which the user can write notes and draw pictures that can be dumped onto a personal —‘looks good, feels good and is very clever’ says the guy that saw it.
1993	Compagnie des Machines Bull SA's Buffalo Grove, Illinois-based Zenith Data Systems yesterday cut prices on some of its notebook personal by up to 13%: the Z-Note 325Lp Model 85 with a 25MHz 80386SL microprocessor, 9.5″ passive-matrix colour display and 85Mb hard drive is $2,500, off 7%.
1993	Zeos International Ltd added a line of four low-cost personal based on Intel Corp's 80486SX at from $1,400 for a complete 486SX-25 system and $1,500 for a 486SX-33: called LiteLines, they are targeted at network and home office users and have room for future installation of CD-ROM or tape back-up unit.
1993	Dell Corp launched a colour notebook at $2,000: the Dimension NL25C has a 25MHz 80386 microprocessor, 9″ screen, weighs 6.6 lbs and has a rechargeable NiCad battery that is claimed to run five hours between charges.
1993	Austin, Texas-based software developer Continuum Co Inc has entered into discussions with Paxus Corp Ltd, a consulting and services firm based in Sydney, Australia, about a possible acquisition of all of Paxus's equity in exchange for shares of Continuum.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc worshipper Integrix Inc, based somewhere in darkest California, has come up with a new keyboard called the S5+ that incorporates the functionality of Sun's new Type 5 but can also be used with all Suns, Sun-compatibles and personal : it is targeted at mixed environments and X terminals and it requires no special device drivers.
1993	SynOptics Communications Inc has announced an order from the Unipart Group of Companies for its System 3000 intelligent hubs, which will be used to spearhead the latter's migration from IBM Corp mainframe systems to personal local networks: the order comes via network integrator Harris Adacom, and comprises seven System 3000 hubs which will be used to run Token Ring and Ethernet; the total contract is worth £250,000, and SynOptics says it won the order ahead of competition from Cabletron and IBM.
1993	Menlo Park California-based Network General Corp is offering another system for its Sniffer Network Analyser: a new version will run on the Toshiba Corp T6400/DX2 colour portable running at 50MHz; currently the new implementation supports only Ethernet, but Token Ring support is promised for the second quarter; the move looks as if it has been caused by the chronic shortage of the Compaq Corp machines that form the basis for the existing Sniffer systems.
1993	After years of anticipation, the Taiwanese-backed NuTek USA Corp in Cupertino, California has finally come down to the wire with its Macintosh-compatible technology: the company claims that it has developed the first machine that emulates the Macintosh without requiring installation of Apple Inc's proprietary ROMs.
1993	Applications built with it will be portable across different graphical user interfaces and automatically run under Microsoft Corp's Windows, the Apple Inc Macintosh, OSF/Motif and other environments without changing any of the code, Oracle claims, automatically conforming to the native look-and-feel of each graphical environment in which it is run.
1993	Although Big Blue has said that its interest lies in exploiting technology and developing digital film ‘software’ rather than creating movies, we cannot imagine IBM buying half or more of an enterprise and then remaining a passive investor.
1993	The Terminal Hater: A pair of charming, morally upright and brilliant scientists — one male, one female — discover that running MS-DOS and Windows cause dental caries.
1993	They risk their careers to bring this information to a sceptical world, barely averting attempts by evil secret agents working for unspecified personal hardware and software companies to kill the protagonists.
1993	It will be sold through ICL's existing direct and indirect sales channels and in Europe by Technology Plc — its personal and peripherals subsidiary.
1993	AS IT INTRODUCES ACCESS SECURITY SOFTWARE FOR CLIENT PERSONAL
1993	ICL Plc will also introduce Access Manager 200, which enables users secure single point of log-in to enterprise-wide networks from personal .
1993	Quorum, which says some of the blame for Equal's delay has been on the legal hassle it had last year with Apple Inc, which held up financing and staffing, will position the product as a Mac application adaptor rather than an emulator.
1993	It will continue to assemble and test VS and secure systems products.
1993	CompuAdd Corp, the Austin, Texas personal manufacturer and retailer, is taking the drastic step of closing all 110 of its stores at the cost of over 600 jobs.
1993	Data General Corp has entered a joint development programme with Oracle Corp to implement Oracle Parallel Server for its AViiON systems and servers: the product enables multiple systems to access a single database providing separate, redundant data access for Oracle users; it is planned to ship in the fourth quarter and the pricing for a 48-user dual AViiON system configuration, with CLARiiON disk array and Oracle Parallel Server, will start at $120,000.
1993	Apple Inc is opening its Company Store, previously accessible only to Apple employees, to the public, but only for buying Apple-logoed merchandise, accessories and software — not for buying Macintoshes or peripherals.
1993	NEC Corp's NEC Akita Ltd subsidiary has put off production of circuit boards at a new factory in Akita prefecture, northern Japan, because of poor demand for home appliances and : according to Reuter, NEC Akita completed construction of the new factory at the end of 1992, and it now hopes to start production at the plant later this year.
1993	Apple Inc's second batch of Newtons will be notebook-sized versions of the device which it expects to ship at about the same time as the small first model, according to MacWeek: the notebook will have a landscape-mode screen with a resolution of 640 by 480 pixels; the notepad, in contrast, has a small portrait-mode screen; Apple will also deliver its first PCMCIA slot in the Newton this summer, but a slot for the PowerBook laptops may be further away.
1993	Microsoft Corp has launched the Microsoft TrueType Master Set, a collection of 102 high-quality TrueType fonts for the Apple Inc Macintosh running System 7.0 and higher: the TrueType Master Set is $100, now.
1993	Mitac International Corp, Taipei, Taiwan is to merge its US units in order to strengthen its operations there: Compac Electronics Inc, American Mitac Corp, Mitac Research Corp and Microelectronics Inc will be merged under the Compac name: Mitac bought an 80% stake in Compac, which should not be confused with to Compaq Corp but no doubt will, in 1991; it says it has no current plans to buy the remaining 20% from independent investors; the merged company is expected to have turnover of $240m in 1993,rising to $500m in 1996, Mitac said.
1993	Cleveland-based LDI Corp's LDI Rentals is now offering short term rental terms on personal made by Dell Corp.
1993	Santa Cruz Operation Inc has won an OEM contract with Xerox Corp to supply its Unix as the standard operating system component of the Xerox DocuTech Publishing Series Extended Storage product: it will run on a Compaq Corp Systempro/LT 486/33 with 8Mb internal memory and two 1Gb disk drives.
1993	Under the licensing agreement, Sun will take a 10% stake in the company, disconcertingly called Elvis+ — for Electronic & Information Systems.
1993	WANG TO SELL TAIWANESE PERSONAL AND METHUEN BOARD PLANTS
1993	In the UK, ICL's activities are now concentrated in three areas: Commodity Products — the personal side of the business, organised through reseller Technology Plc; mainframe-based Industry Solutions; and Cross Industry Services, comprising the Sorbus hardware and software services arm; facilities management company CFM in which ICL has a 75% stake; disaster standby venture Guardian Services; and newly formed ICL Enterprises.
1993	These are Peritas Ltd, the UK's largest independent training supplier which recently acquired Genus and Protocol; Workplace Technologies Ltd, which designs and installs the power, air conditioning, fire and security systems for offices and rooms; Consultancy and Technical Services, which provides systems integration, process engineering, network management and consultancy and which includes the CPS cross-industry services unit; and ICL Secure Systems, formed to design secure network and office systems.
1993	Personal software looks to be a good money spinner too having grown 200% though from an admittedly small customer base.
1993	ICL UK's July acquisition of personal and Unix reseller Technology Plc is also paying dividends.
1993	The distributor is also marketing ICL's new TechnICL and Zeno personal , and the new Ergo collection.
1993	Personal sales, handled by Technology Plc and newly merged Scandinavian company Nokia Data Systems nearly matched the joint returns from ICL's mainframe and Unix business.
1993	It is hoped too, that 30% to 40% growth in personal sales seen for 1993 will offset waning mainframe business.
1993	Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc, which went all the way to Japan for its last major product introduction, will finally launch its first family of network file servers at CeBit, in Hannover, on March 25, according to US press reports.
1993	The workstation software is downloaded from the host to the individual personal .
1993	However this is a claim made solely on the evaluation of the IBM team and it hasn't been given a stamp from the National Security Centre.
1993	While SynOptics says that adaptor boards for other physical layer and system interfaces will be added, no time-scale has yet been given for their development.
1993	InaCom Corp, Omaha, Nebraska-based retailer filed to offer of 5.522m shares, 2.4m of them new to raise cash to cut bank borrowings.
1993	Geac Corp Ltd has reported a third quarter net loss equivalent to $5.6m after an exceptional charge of $8.6m for buying in of software research by the library automation business, against a profit last time of $2.9m, on turnover that rose 31.7% to $22.3m; net loss for the nine months was $241,000 against a profit last time of $5.1m, on turnover that rose 17.9% at $58.7m.
1993	The European Commission has set up definitive measures to stop imports of chips from South Korea being dumped within the Community: finance ministers decided on Monday that imports of dynamic RAMs from Korea would either be subject to import duties of 24.7% or to a pricing deal worked out with the three main chip producers, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, Hyundai Electronics Industries Co Ltd and Goldstar Electron Co Ltd; anti-dumping duties had been levied at 10.1%; the Big Three took 25% of the Community in 1990 from just 6% in 1986.
1993	The good news for NeXT Inc is that WordPerfect Corp plans to include support for NeXTstep for Intel Corp processors in the upcoming interim release of WordPerfect 1.0.1 for NeXT, the bad news is that Cable & Wireless Plc alumnus Peter van Cuylenburg is resigning as president and chief operating officer of NeXT, just one year after he joined the company —‘Now that NeXT is becoming a software company, NeXT and van Cuylenburg mutually agreed that the restructured 200-person company no longer requires both a chief executive and a president and chief operating officer,’ NeXT said in a statement.
1993	Sprint Corp and the Bulgarian Telecommunications Co have formed a joint venture in Bulgaria, Reuter reports from Sofia: the Sprint Business Telecommunications Co plans to provide SprintNet value-added communications services that will enable Bulgarian customers to their link host and personal with others around the world.
1993	In their latest applications alliance, Oracle Corp will team with Sun Microsystems Corp to develop and sell products and services for the pharmaceutical industry: the partners look for about $200m in hardware, software and services from the venture by 1997; it will include a systems integration effort for complicated tasks such as document tracking and joint development of software to expedite computer-assisted new drug design.
1993	Compaq Corp says it expects its move into direct sales to generate up to 10% of its US revenues this year, and may be expanded to some foreign markets later this year: total US sales amounted to about $1,700m in 1992, Compaq said.
1993	‘You played it for her, you can play it for me’: MacWeek expects Apple Inc this month to announce a software only information server code-named Bogart that simplifies and accelerates text search and retrieval; the thing will use agent technology to enable users to perform English-language queries with Boolean operators and proximity searches of text stored on a central server or on CD-ROMs and will deliver ‘smart relevance’ search results, ranked by pertinence to the user's query; searches can reportedly occur on demand or at user-specified time intervals.
1993	Each letter is written in an onscreen box and a fraction of a second later, written the types it as the letter it believes it to be.
1993	Sugar said that the PDA was certainly not a blockbuster by the standards of the early personal market when the company could make a clear £300 on each machine sold: he put the total size of the UK electronic organiser market at around 200,000 units.
1993	JAPAN HAS COLOUR FLAT PANEL X TERMINAL
1993	The ‘world's first’ colour flat panel X Window terminal has been launched by Japan Corp from its US base in Fort Lee, New Jersey.
1993	Japan also claims to have the first large, high resolution LCD based on Thin Film Transistor technology, and says the XfC is the first of a flat-panel family.
1993	The modules include VPL DataGlove, Polhemus 3Space and Fastrak trackers, three-dimensional mouse, stereo three-dimensional displays for screen and projection or head-mounted displays, speech recognition, sound synthesis and a three-dimensional graphics generator; it runs on Unix workstations.
1993	The software also includes Hummingbird's XDK developer kit, which enables users to convert applications between personal and Unix environments.
1993	Exceed/Xpress enables remote personal communications to X Window applications via modem or by RS232 serial connection.
1993	The OSF/Motif Toolkit will enable users to develop Motif X Window clients on a personal rather than a remote host.
1993	Hummingbird also introduces version 3.3 of exceed/W, its personal X Server software for Windows.
1993	These connect personal local network electronic mail systems with each other, with mainframe and minicomputer-based systems, and with public networks supporting X400.
1993	Currently gateways for cc:Mail, Microsoft Mail for personal networks and the Macintosh, NetWare MHS, SMTP, WordPerfect Office, and Oracle mail are being offered.
1993	FRANCE TELECOM's SPHERIS BRINGS SERVICES TO PERSONAL ; MICROSOFT PACT
1993	The operator also announced Spheris, a new messaging software designed to integrate its existing telecommunications services onto personal .
1993	Spheris integrates France Telecom's existing services, including Atlas 400 messaging, Viafax facsimile, Missimix telex and Minicom Minitel viewdata, on a personal .
1993	‘We're departing from the idea that microcomputers will be a fantastic source of telecommunications traffic in the future,’ said Jean-Jacques Damlamian, France Telecom's sales director, citing a study by DG Conseil that shows France's 420,000 networked personal already generating $160m per year in revenues for all types of telecommunications traffic.
1993	‘We are not interested in selling , but in interconnecting them ergonomically.’
1993	Spheris User functions on either a local network (Novell NetWare 2.2 and 3.11, LAN Manager 2.0 and 2.1, and IBM PC LAN 1.3) or stand-alone personal or workstation.
1993	Spheris User functions with Spheris Communication on stand-alone personal and workstations to manage local messaging and access to other sites via the workgroup server.
1993	He also recounted development efforts under way with hardware partners, IBM France SA, Apple Inc and Zenith Data Systems, for communications devices that integrate facsimile, answering machine, Minitel and messaging.
1993	An MS-DOS version should arrive before the summer, he noted, and similar products for Zenith portable personal and for Macintoshes should be ready by the end of the year.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co and Progress Software Corp have signed a joint marketing and development agreement to implement the Progress application development environment to the RISC-based HP 3000 business .
1993	The environment will enable HP 3000 users to develop and deploy terminal-based or client-server applications across all Hewlett systems from the HP 3000 to the HP-UX-based HP 9000 Unix servers and workstations, and HP Vectra personal .
1993	By all the rules of the market, Hewlett-Packard Co's HP 3000 business family should be going the way of the Wang Laboratories Inc VS and the Nixdorf AG 8870, but in defiance of crude market logic, the machine is going from strength to strength, bolstered by the company's relaxed approach to migration to Unix: because HP 3000 users know they can relatively painlessly convert to Unix any time they choose, the majority are happy to stay right where they are, and the company claims that its high-end HP 3000 system business actually grew more than 50% last year, and the much-derided Posix interface is actually enabling it to pick up applications from Unix.
1993	The latest Unix application moved to the HP 3000 is Mountain View, California-based Ask Systems Inc's Manman/X, manufacturing business-management system, which was converted ‘in just four weeks’ using the HP 3000 Posix interface, and will be available on the HP 3000 in the spring.
1993	He also reckons there are underlying growth trends in the market for connecting personal to networks.
1993	Figures from market researcher International Data Corp indicate that while 20% of all personal were networked in 1991, this will rise to 40% by 1995, so he feels that prospects are good here too.
1993	Last year, Sony Corp bought a licence to Apple Inc's AppleTalk network so that Macs could be networked with its News Unix workstations, and it has now taken the logical next step and its subsidiary will market Macs for attaching to networks of Sony workstations in Japan, with much of the business to be directed at use within the Sony group companies.
1993	Companies rushing up to endorse the still nameless IBM Corp-Hewlett-Packard Co-Sun Microsystems Inc common user interface for Unix effort (CI No 2,130) include Software AG, IBM's Personal Software Products division, Associates International Inc, Unisys Corp and Ask Systems Inc; the Object Management Group stood in the wings enthusiastically applauding.
1993	The Software Publishers Association in Washington reckons that North American personal application software sales rose 9.6% to $1,710m in the fourth quarter of 1992 and totalled $5,750m for the year, an increase of 14.1%, all of which suggests there's a slow-down.
1993	A former IBM Corp employee has been arraigned on seven counts of grand larceny for allegedly stealing more than $49m worth of mainframe memory boards from the company — but you're meant to laugh at the $49m figure, because that is the highest price at which they were included in the price list, and very few customers are likely ever to have paid it; the indictment by an Ulster County grand jury charged Carl McDonald, 41, of Poughkeepsie conspired to steal 3,381 mainframe memory boards from IBM's complex in Kingston, and allegedly sold the boards for $7m, a more realistic valuation, to firms in Texas, Minnesota, California, Canada and here in the UK; no names.
1993	Pyramid Technology Corp has picked executive vice-president, Ed Scott, and former US sales vice-president, Robert Buhl to team up to develop and manage the company's technology and strategic partnerships with vendors and integrators worldwide: the move is part of the firm's four-month-old Open Data Center strategy; Buhl has been named vice-president, strategic partners, reporting to Scott; Pyramid's chairman, Richard Lussier, will assume management of direct sales organisation and marketing oversight will fall to chief operating officer John Chen; Mitchell Mandich, formerly Tandem Inc's western region sales director, is vice-president for the Americas responsible for sales in the western hemisphere and reporting to Richard Lussier.
1993	ACCENT TO DISTRIBUTE ANDREW NETWORK PRODUCTS
1993	Burgess Hill, West Sussex-based Accent Ltd has signed to distribute Andrew Corp's Andrew Network Products' range of IBM Corp communications products: the agreement covers 5250 emulation and file transfer products, Token Ring systems, mainframe and mid-range protocol converters and gateway devices.
1993	Rogers Cantel Mobile Communications Inc, Toronto says it will launch a wireless data link service enabling portable users with a special modem to send and receive data from airports, taxis, hotels and customers' premises within the Rogers Cantel Mobitex cellular area.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp and Encore Corp have advanced their Alpha RISC-centred collaboration, and DEC says it will incorporate and distribute the Fort Lauderdale company's high-speed Memory Channel, which directly links the memory subsystems of multiple node processors, and Infinity File System, which enables processors to view data stored on the disks of all the CPUs in a cluster as if it were part of a single database.
1993	The Super Compserver 10 is a low-cost desktop server based on the Texas Instruments Inc's SuperSparc chip and is compatible with Sun Microsystems Corp's Sparcstation 10.
1993	Software reseller Corporate Software Inc has launched its Advance series of software management services worldwide — these are intended to reduce the costs of buying, installing and using both licensed and custom personal software.
1993	The services are targeted at customers with 1,000 personal or more, multinational companies, or companies with a lot of branches, and are intended to provide such organisations with a better return on their investment by attacking the hidden costs of installation, support, and implementation of an ever-increasing number of upgrades.
1993	According to market researchers the Gartner Group, it costs a company an astonishing £19,500 or so to run a single personal over a five-year period.
1993	North estimates, for example, that if a company has 2,000 personal and it takes an average of one and a half hours per year to upgrade software on each of them, then company-wide, this activity takes a total 3,000 hours.
1993	It is very difficult to quantify the hidden costs of owning and operating a personal , but when you have thousands of the things, it is important to know.
1993	Buying new
1993	The capital from the share issue will be used to strengthen the company's infrastructure — by buying new , for example, and taking on new staff.
1993	And it reckons there is very little standing in its way — according to Parker, its four major competitors have nothing to rival the new product — Dun & Bradstreet Software Corp has incompatible products; SAP AG is strong in Germany and other continental countries but not in the UK; Walker Interactive Systems Inc offers purely mainframe software; and Associates International Inc has a poor reputation for financial packages.
1993	JWP INC HAS HAD ENOUGH OF
1993	JWP Inc, the Rye Brook, New York electrical and plumbing services conglomerate that bought struggling Businessland Inc and almost immediately regretted it, has decided that it has had enough of altogether and on Friday announced that it will sell its information services business; it has retained Lazard Freres & Co as its financial advisor to attempt to find a buyer; the unit now provides personal computer-related hardware, software and integrated services primarily to large corporate and institutional customers, has some 3,000 staff and had 1992 revenues of $1,700m.
1993	Apple Inc will offer pen-enabled models of its PowerBook notebook this autumn, the San Francisco Chronicle hears.
1993	In what sounds like industry heresy, Gupta Corp, Menlo Park told Reuter that it is looking to higher prices for its more advanced software products to help it achieve sharply higher earnings in 1993: ‘Our prices are going up as the functionality and performance of our software increases along with the functionality and performance of personal networks,’ chief executive Umang Gupta said; the company will introduce two new versions of its SQLWindows 4.0 software later this month; the standard version at $2,000, a more advanced one at $3,500; he says its only prices going down were for communications routing software.
1993	Compaq Corp has lost its senior vice-president and general manager of the Personal Division, Douglas Johns: president and chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer will assume the posts until a permanent replacement can be found.
1993	Nintendo Co does plan to use satellites for delivery of games: the company says it plans to broadcast a game via satellite in Japan, and owners of its game that buy a decoder and adaptor — for about $85 — will be able to pick the thing up; Nintendo also plans a national competition for high scorers in satellite games; meantime Nintendo of America is poised for its largest launch of a video game ever this week in a bid to best Sega Enterprises Ltd — it plans to spend up to $15m in a month-long promotion of Star Fox, a science fiction action game inspired by Star Trek and Star Wars that uses its new Super FX technology, which includes a RISC embedded in the $60 games cartridge; it claims to have 1m advance orders for it.
1993	Users of 80486-based personal may be able to run Macintosh System 7.1 on their machines if a project under way at Apple Inc comes to fruition.
1993	Manufacturers — such as Compaq Corp, which rushed to discuss its Pentium plans in general terms, say they expect their first Pentium machines to list for as little as $4,500, half the price set for early model 80486 machines in 1989.
1993	Sun reckons that its only competitors are Intel Corp and the IBM Corp-Motorola Inc-Apple Inc PowerPC.
1993	SunSelect also announced SelectMail, an electronic mail product that enables MS-DOS and Windows users to exchange mail files with other personal and Unix systems.
1993	The new version of PC-NFS adds support for Windows For Workgroups and NetWare device drivers, enabling personal to share applications, files, printers and electronic mail across any TCP/IP or Open Network Computing-Network File System network, SunSelect says.
1993	It comes in two editions; one for Windows-based personal and the other for MS-DOS.
1993	There are between 300,000 and 400,000 personal versions out there, tiny numbers for a Lotus, even though personal networks have been selling like hot cakes.
1993	The programme is pitched at Fortune 1000 companies that have embraced open systems for strategic applications and the company suggests that it could develop a prototype to consolidate financial reporting from a company's strategic business units into corporate headquarters, connecting disparate environments into a client-server system.
1993	NCR Corp is the latest port of call for Associates International Inc with its CA-Unicenter systems management offering which is now up and running on NCR's System 3000s under Unix System V.4.
1993	The merger of Siemens AG and Nixdorf AG to form Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG was ‘the worst thing in the history of the corporation’ that had happened in Spain.
1993	Apple Inc on Wednesday launches its first full-function servers, and with them hopes to persuade small- and medium-size businesses to buy from it all the equipment they need; the new Workgroup servers can process data up to four times faster than Quadras, and although they will support alien machines, they are designed primarily for networks consisting mainly of Macintoshes; the Workgroup Server Models 60 and 80 cost from $3,080 to $10,000, the high-end Model 95 at $7,600 to $13,000; the 95 is out by the end of April the other two this summer; the company also has a new Release 4.0 of its AppleShare file and print sharing software, and a high-end AppleShare Pro; the company is also launching AppleTalk Connection for MS-DOS and Windows to enable cross communications between Macintosh and MS-DOS boxes in a network.
1993	Keeping up the pricing pressure, Dell Corp yesterday cut prices by $50 to $300 on six of its Dimension systems: the cuts affect three mid-size desktops and three floor-standing systems, and move than 60 Dimension configurations.
1993	Morton Meyerson, head of Perot Systems Corp, appears to have ruled himself out of the vacant post atop IBM Corp according to the New York Times: it reckons that RJR Nabisco Inc chief Louis Gerstner, who does not have a industry background, is now the only front-runner not to have ruled himself out.
1993	Morden, Surrey-based Short Term Rental Systems Ltd can now offer UK customers what it reckons is a unique combined hardware and software personal rental service, thanks to a series of agreements with WordStar International Inc, Microsoft Corp, BitStream Inc and Lotus Development Corp: users are offered a combination of Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and Apple Inc machines ready-loaded with the software of their choice — an 80486 machine with colour monitor, inkjet printer, WordStar word processor and Lotus spreadsheet will cost £135; 24 hour support is also available from Bushey, Hertfordshire-based Professional Support Centre; the service is aimed at ‘Small-Office-Home-Office’ users, large corporates wanting to hire machines for project work, and hotels, exhibition and conference organisers wishing to hire out facilities to clients; rental, naturally, has been viewed with suspicion by software companies anxious about piracy — Short Term Rental has got round this by removing the installation commands from the software it rents so preventing users from copying.
1993	San Jose-based Maxoptix Corp, joint venture of Maxtor Corp and Kubota Corp, reports that the European Manufacturers Association has formally endorsed the Maxoptix 1Gb zoned constant angular velocity magneto-optical disk format as ECMA Standard £183 and that it has been accepted by the International Standards Organisation for its Fast Track procedure as a Draft International Standard; the spec is an extension of the 650Mb standard.
1993	Unisys Corp added two new workstations to the CTOS SuperGen line of networked commercial workstations: the SuperGen 3000 and SuperGen 1000 are the first CTOS systems based on Unisys personal using standard architecture; the SuperGen 3000 is a fully featured Intel Corp 80486SL-based client workstation at about $2,000 and available now, the SuperGen 1000 costs about $3,000 and will be available next month.
1993	It starts with about $380m over five years to help national authorities exchange information in areas such as taxes and export controls, says national governments would have to provide at least $6,700m over five years, it said, and wants another $7,900m or so over seven years to help all the Community's backward regions to build up their telecommunications and infrastructures; it says helpfully that loans will be available from the European Investment Bank to help with the effort.
1993	OUTSOURCING TO ACQUIRE BILLING AND PAYROLL SERVICE PROVIDER
1993	New York-based Outsourcing Services Inc, which said it wanted to make acquisitions when it went public the other day, has signed a definitive agreement to acquire a private New York-based provider of billing and payroll services to companies in the home health care industry on a four-year earnout.
1993	AST Research Inc cut prices for three models of its PowerExec notebook by up to 13%: the PowerExec 3/25SL Models 83/W and 123/W, the 4/25SL Model 203/W and the 4/25SL Color Plus Model 203/W are affected; it also cut prices on its 66MHz and 50MHz 80486DX2-based models in the Bravo line 5% to 26%.
1993	Reminds you of the US Interstate Highway system and the way it instantly snarled as soon as Washington residents tried to exit en masse during the riots of the late 1960s, doesn't it…that blizzard coming on top of the New York World Trade Center bombing was just the kind of disaster the disaster recovery industry has been dreading: according to the New York Times, a heavy accumulation of snow caused the roof of the centre in Clifton, New Jersey that supports 5,000 automatic teller machines US-wide, 6% of the total, to collapse, putting the machines out of action — and the centre couldn't transfer its operations to the North Bergen, New Jersey site where it had disaster recovery facilities arranged — because the site was full up with work transferred by Trade Center tenants…
1993	Olivetti, meantime, secures a second foothold in the infant personal telecommunications market, in addition to its 80% interest in Acorn Group Plc, whose Advanced RISC Machines Ltd affiliate provides the RISC chip for Apple Inc's rival Newton machine.
1993	The new devices, according to Eo's president and chief executive Alain Rossmann, are designed more as a replacement for the standard telephone than for standard , being New Age communication tools.
1993	A further nine ROM-installed applications are also bundled with the system: Go Mail for message swapping and simple electronic mail connection; Go Fax for connection to any Group III facsimile machine; Eo Phone for connecting a cellular phone system; Eo Sound for recording and playing voice messages; Eo Calc; the Eo Lock security system; Go Mininote, a kind of electronic Post It note; Sitka PenTops/Pen Central enables users to communicate by cable or modem to MS-DOS personal ; and PenSoft Personal Perspective for calendar, diary, and address book.
1993	Serial and parallel ports provide connection to personal , printers and 1.44Mb external floppy drive.
1993	Take for instance, its co-operation with British Telecommunications Plc on a so-called Personal for Communication that combines a multimedia with videophone, facsimile capability, photofax (CI No 2,120).
1993	These include Apple Inc spin-off General Magic Inc with its Telescript telephony system — the ‘Esperanto’ of personal communications according to Alain Rossmann, and the means by which various types of devices should be able to connect.
1993	AT&T Co has plunged into the desktop personal videoconferencing business with the launch of its Visual Solutions product line, committing that the products and services for business will be based on globally accepted standards for video calls over digital phone lines — under the framework of the Consultative Committee on International Telephony and Telegraphy, companies worldwide have agreed the Px64 series of standards for video transmission over digital phone lines.
1993	The firm's new Personal Video System Model 70 enables users working in a Microsoft Corp Windows environment to see each other in a scalable video window as they talk and simultaneously collaborate on documents.
1993	Users can share Windows applications, requiring that only one personal holds the application and files.
1993	The companies will develop interfaces between their respective management systems and Concert, which will conform to the Network Management Forum's OminiPoint specifications, based on the Common Management Interface Protocol, CMIP.
1993	The company has also added an improved parallel interface that enables users to produce hard-copy graphics on its plotters from AT and EISA architecture personal running networked or stand-alone.
1993	Personal Products Inc, based in San Diego, California, says it has raised $500,000 with a placing of convertible notes to a group of European banks.
1993	Micronics Inc has reported first quarter net profit down 28.6% at $2m, on turnover up 11.5% to $42.3m.
1993	Trace Plc has reported net profits for the six months to November 30 down 52.0% at £105,000 on turnover that fell 9.0% at £8.8m; at the pre-tax level, profits fell 52.5% at £105,000 and earnings per share fell 49% to 0.78 pence.
1993	CompuAdd Corp, Austin, Texas cut prices across its product line by as much as 23%: the EISA-based CompuAdd 466EDX2 tower unit now costs $3,800, and the CompuAdd 433DX configured in a desktop power chassis is now $2,600; the CompuAdd 466DX2 configured in a desktop power chassis is down 23% at $3,000.
1993	Conner Peripherals Inc has reorganised around four market groups — an OEM products group to market disk drives, tape drives, storage management software and storage systems to manufacturers, a distribution products group to market the same products to distributors and resellers, a storage systems group, formerly Maynard Electronics, will market bundled hardware and software primarily to corporate end users, and a software products group will market storage management software to personal users and network administrators through retail and OEM channels and build on its product development relationships with major operating system companies.
1993	Tulip NV is scheduled to announce 1992 figures tomorrow, and Amsterdam analysts are bracing themselves for a flood of red ink.
1993	Trace Plc blames the fall in turnover for the six months to November 30 (figures, see page five), on a planned reduction in the scale of its supplies business, where turnover fell by nearly £1m; the company managed to shave £122,000 from its administrative and operating costs; the original businesses of insurance broking systems, property management systems and bespoke software development have continued to prosper, the company says, and the Proteus distribution systems business, consolidated on its return to profits last year; Trace Financial also made a small profit and there was interest in the BlueChip stockbroking product; the group is still investing about £2m a year in research and development — with some contribution from its customers; the Pink networking technology company had a disappointing half year, turning in a small loss after having made a profit last year.
1993	PHILIPS ‘TO PULL OUT OF THE PERSONAL BUSINESS’
1993	The story seems to have been largely missed, but Philips Electronics NV is planning to pull out of the personal business as part of its latest restructuring, which will see 5,000 jobs go from its consumer electronics operations worldwide this year, Het Financieele Dagblad reported.
1993	The Eindhoven company plans to scrap 20% of its consumer electronics product range, largely from the lower end of the price range — and it will halt its personal activities and withdraw partially from consumer electronics in countries where margins are low.
1993	Last April, when Philips unveiled new cutbacks in its heavily loss-making personal production operations, the company said it would stop manufacturing micros under its own brand name in the US, but continue to produce for third parties.
1993	All personal production has now been halted, the company said, calling into question the future of its factory in Montreal, Canada.
1993	P&P Plc has quickly found a buyer for its volume distribution business which should mean that it can reverse at least a part of the £8.9m provision it took against its most recent figures to cover costs of closure if a buyer could not be found.
1993	The trade ministry said it would soon invite bids from US companies including IBM Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, Unisys Corp and Tandem Inc.
1993	‘In order to survive in the cut-throat industry, we must produce our own large-scale .’
1993	Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, the electronics units of Hyundai Group, Lucky Goldstar Group and Daewoo Group and Trigem Ltd all hoped to participate in the project, the official said.
1993	It plans a broad-based programme for developing an industry of Notes partners, and a two-tier distribution strategy designed to make the thing readily available through distribution channels used by personal networking and application developers.
1993	Moreover, according to Barry Graham of IBM research group Xephon Plc, the mainframe is not a dinosaur, and is cheaper than Unix systems and personal linked by local area networks at those sites with more than 200 users.
1993	This, he believes, is what has made Unisys Corp ‘the most profitable company in the world’— since the merger of Univac and Burroughs, it has not only kept headcount low, but also used the profits generated from mainframe sales to develop portable software applications.
1993	He believes size is everything in the industry because companies need to be big enough to fund development.
1993	The innovation once focused around Unix hardware vendors is slipping towards the personal .
1993	And customers now have a choice of MS-DOS, Windows, NT, NetWare, UnixWare, Solaris, NextStep or OS/2 on their personal , while a Sun user, for instance, must stick with Solaris.
1993	Rekhi thinks that it will be the ‘pure’ companies without the old-fashioned mind-set that will flourish: pure hardware companies such as Dell Corp and Compaq Corp; pure software houses such as Novell and Santa Cruz Operation Inc; applications vendors such as Lotus Development Corp; and a newer breed of company that will integrate everything, such as the reborn Unisys Corp.
1993	Companies subscribing to the service include GEC Avery Service, Siemens Medical, Response Maintenance, and Modern Security Systems, part of the Automated Security Holdings Group.
1993	The $200 package, the company's first software product, enables Sparc-enhanced personal to access Network File System-based network resources such as files, printers and mass storage devices via the MS-DOS Windows File Manager.
1993	Recently it announced that it is to begin testing all personal assembled in Russia from imported components.
1993	The idea is that all must conform to Russian standards, and the Committee has already singled out Summit Systems (a Chips & Technologies Inc joint venture), the French-Italian-Russian joint venture Interquadro; and Intermicro, a Russian-Austrian joint venture.
1993	NEC Corp distributor Trident International (represented in Russia by Trident A/O), is to open a Radio Shack retail outlet in Moscow, the first of its kind in Russia: it will sell NEC , consumer electronics, Trident and IBM Corp ; the shop will be on Leninsky Prospect; no precise address as yet.
1993	According to Arkady Golubkov, chairman of the Russia Committee on Informatization, imports of equipment into the Russian Federation were worth about $2.5m during the month of September; the committee is responsible for the Informatizatsiya Rossii programme.
1993	Inkombank, a commercial bank in Moscow, has signed a $2m contract with NCR GmbH to supply the and telecommunication equipment required to connect Inkombank to the Swift network: under the agreement, Inkombank will get two ST-400 workstations; last April, NCR won a contract to supply Inkombank with a complete head office automation system.
1993	Hoping to lay to rest the hare started by an interview given to the Wall Street Journal by a top Siemens AG staffer, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG management board chairman Hans-Dieter Wiedig said at the opening of the Cebit Hannover Fair yesterday that his company had no plans for a strategic link with another company.
1993	He said that like all manufacturers, Siemens Nixdorf was in various co-operation talks, but these did not include financial ties.
1993	The focus of the nine business units will be on services and software and includes such areas as office automation, personal and networking systems.
1993	The four system units will be organised around products — mainframe , mid-range, self-service terminal systems and application software, and is intended significantly to cut the time it takes for products to get to market — the aim is to cut in half the time it takes to develop products and bring them to the market.
1993	Apple Inc yesterday introduced its first CD-ROM-based multimedia product, PowerCD, a three-in-one player for CD-ROM, photo CD and audio compact disks: it will be out in the summer but was not priced.
1993	Apple Inc's Enterprise Systems Division will be launching its AppleSearch workgroup technology alongside the new servers: it is designed to give Macintosh users personalised, easy access to unstructured text, turning a collection of documents stored on a server into an on-line library — based on the contents of each document — which can be searched to find needed information quickly and easily; the client-server AppleSearch is designed to deliver ad hoc access to information as well as proactive updates to its users on an immediate, daily or weekly basis; documents to be searched are not altered by AppleSearch — they are stored in their native format and translated into searchable text by Apple's XTND file conversion technology, which enables users to view text of documents without having the application that created them.
1993	Apple Inc's 68040-based Workgroup Server models 60, 80 and 95, are formally introduced today at Hannover: the entry model 60, with 8Mb memory and 500Mb disk will start at $3,080; the mid-range model 80 has 16Mb of RAM, a 1Gb hard drive, DDS-DC back-up drive and a compact disk read-only-memory drive will start at $6,400 and the model 95, with 16Mb and 230Mb disk will start at $7,590, Apple says.
1993	SCIENCES WINS SUN FACILITIES MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
1993	Sciences Corp has won a multi-year facilities management contract from Sun Microsystems Inc that is expected to generate $27m a year: under the agreement, Sun will temporarily transfer all its mainframe data centre activities in Milpitas, California to a Sciences data centre in San Diego, enabling Sun to convert its mainframe systems, which oversee its worldwide manufacturing operations, to a client-server environment, with help from Sciences, and the El Segundo company will run Sun's day-to-day operations, supporting applications maintenance for its Manufacturing Resource Planning software, while the client-server system is developed and installed.
1993	Acorn Ltd chose the Cebit Hannover Fair to launch a German version of its RISC OS 3 operating system: not much to it you may think — just translate the error messages — unfortunately the company had reckoned without the sheer verbosity of the German language — it took five beta versions before all the Achtung! messages were successfully squeezed into the ROM.
1993	DOS Protected Mode Services is an application programming interface that enables device drivers and terminate and stay resident programs to reside in extended memory and execute in protected mode on 80286 and up, greatly reducing demand for conventional memory.
1993	Apple Inc said yesterday that it is licensing its Newton personal digital assistant technologies to a number of companies in an effort to make Newton a pervasive standard’ available to the , consumer and telecommunications industries.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA's hot property for the Cebit fair in Hannover this year is the Active Badge system, an infra-red badge developed at its Cambridge research laboratory here in the UK and designed for access control and location applications.
1993	The company also launched a line of multimedia personal and a bubblejet printer.
1993	But it is looking to grow by 20% each year, its sights set on overtaking arch-rival Associates International Inc — presently three times its size — and taking the number three position by 1997.
1993	Though no longer the sole data providers which was their previous role, data processing departments now need to function as enablers, responsible for co-ordinating various systems.
1993	Legent, he said, has a head start over Associates in this respect.
1993	But she said that many of the issues involved are also raised by licence applications from Advanced Communications Inc and Alanna Corp, which are already being considered.
1993	This season, the scoring system is going high-tech thanks to a joint venture between Goole, Humberside-based press agency News Services and the Test and County Cricket Board.
1993	The new system, which should be in place by the end of this month, will replace the current pen and paper score sheet method with 30 laptop — one for each scorer — connected to a database.
1993	It runs on Compaq Corp Contura notebooks, complete with colour screens and internal and using BSD 386 Unix with X Window software, and has been designed with user friendliness in mind since the nation's cricket scorers are largely computilliterate 70- to 90-year-olds.
1993	This information is electronically mailed back to a central Sun MicrosystemsInc database and a Compaq personal , held in News Services' offices.
1993	Support for COSE came from across the industry, including Adobe Systems Inc, Autodesk Inc, Associates International Inc, Computervision Corp, Convex Corp, Cray Research Inc, Electronic Data Systems Corp, Fujitsu Ltd, Hitachi Ltd, ICL Plc, Ingres Corp, Mead Corp, the Object Management Group, Oki Electric Industry Co, Oracle Corp, Samsung Electronics Co, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, Stratus Inc, Sybase Corp, Toshiba Corp, Unisys Corp, Unix International and XSoft.
1993	It has taken an awful long time to come to fruition — and appears to have needed the departure of founder Ken Olsen to come to fruition, but Digital Equipment Corp is finally to start marketing Apple Inc Macintoshes to major companies in the US, mirroring the arrangement the two companies have had for some time in Europe.
1993	Personal packages are a real boom area because of the influence of Windows, networks and the growing numbers of home users, according to technical director Graham Wylie.
1993	Needless to say, the company organises its own accounts on Sovereign software, running on a network of 100 personal attached to an 80486 server.
1993	Den Bosch, Netherlands-based Tulip NV reported a loss — the first in its history — of about $8m for 1992, and said it is cutting out the dividend, but the shares improved about 8% after the company said that it expected better 1993 results — and the loss was not as bad as had been feared: analysts had seen a loss of as much as $13m.
1993	Reporting profits of £1.3m, up from just £300,000 last time, Acorn Group Plc says that although there was pricing and therefore margin pressure across the industry, its differentiated technology and focus on value for the customer enabled it to maintain strong gross margins.
1993	The company reckons that it maintained its position as the leading supplier of to UK education, and established itself as an important supplier to the home market, and made good progress in Australia and New Zealand through the subsidiaries there.
1993	The ARM 600 will of course be used to drive Apple Inc's Newton and the interactive multiplayer designed by 3DO Inc.
1993	For the future, Acorn says that in the professional arena, powerful systems are being developed its , and it will co-ordinate and exploit this opportunity in key areas such as the professional publishing market.
1993	Identics Corp has reported fourth quarter net profits down 32.5% at $351,000, on turnover up 3.7% at $6.3m; net profit for the year to December 31 was up 15.1% at $875,000, on turnover that rose 6.5% to $22m.
1993	Tulip NV has reported a net loss for 1992 equivalent to $8.0m against a profit last time of $8.9m, after an extraordinary charge of $1.1m this time and an extraordinary gain of $2.1m last, on turnover that fell 19.1% at $177.7m.
1993	Acorn Group Plc has reported net — and pre-tax — profits for the year to December 31 up 378% at £1.3m on turnover that rose 17.6% at £48.2m.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp reports a $27m contract for personal and services from Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co: under the five-year deal, DEC will provide hardware, software, installation and maintenance for the next generation of the firms business management system.
1993	There is no great demand for pen computing from Western users of mid-range systems, but things are rather different if you happen to be Chinese — and 1,200m people in the People's Republic alone are — and are constrained to use thousands of ideographic characters, and Communication Intelligence Corp, Redwood Shores, California has gone to IBM Corp for an OEM agreement on its AS/400 and plans to fit the terminals with its PenDOS and Handwriter Recognition System software and integrate the machines into its pen-based product line being designed for China; Communication Intelligence plans to market its Chinese pen-based office automation system through partnerships with the Chinese government, with the first out in 12 months.
1993	Tandy Corp's City subsidiary plans to expand in Europe this year: it already has superstores in Stockholm and Copenhagen and plans at least one more in Europe this year, although it's not sure where; City — one step down from Tandy's Incredible Universe fun palace stores — will open its 19th US superstore on April 1 in the Boston area and plans to open 16 new US superstores a year for the next three years for a total of 66.
1993	Novell Inc says that under its agreement with Digital Equipment Corp for joint development, marketing and support a native implementation of the NetWare operating system for DEC's Alpha AXP chip (CI No 2,131), the plan is to release a version of NetWare 4.0 for Alpha some time in 1994, although software development kits will be ready by the end of this year; DEC has worked with Novell since the middle of the 1980s, and the two have also worked together to integrate DEC's Pathworks personal integration software with NetWare.
1993	Progress Software Corp is to release a Digital Equipment Corp OSF/1 version of Progress for Alpha AXP systems next quarter, and the Bedford, Massachusetts company has introduced a gateway to the Sybase SQL Server, including support for Sybase stored procedures and database triggers; it is out this month on Sequent Systems Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc hardware, with Data General Corp AViiON, Hewlett-Packard Co HP 9000 and IBM Corp RS/6000 versions next quarter.
1993	Under co-founder Steve Hui, Fremont-based Everex Systems Inc, now trading under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, spent millions of dollars trying to produce clones of Apple Inc's Macintosh and Sun Microsystems Inc workstations and an expensive computerised drafting table without ever getting them to market, according to United Press International; former managers have also complained anonymously that Everex management frequently ordered more components than it needed in order to get lower prices, the wire service says.
1993	Wordperfect Corp's WordPerfect 4.2 for AS/400 is now available in the UK through IBM UK Ltd: upgrades will be offered in the future, along with Wordperfect 5.2 for OS/2, later this year; WordPerfect for the AS/400 can be integrated with IBM's Office Vision/400 Version 2 v.II and Query 400, is compatible with WordPerfect personal documents and can be merged with the AS/400 relational database; it can be integrated with Facsimile Support/400 and uses the workstation controller's text assist function to provide a more personal computer-like interface.
1993	Uxbridge, Middlesex-based Kamco Systems Ltd has a new 33MHz 80486-based multimedia personal , available from April, and for standard personal users, a multimedia kit comprising Sony 31A CD-ROM drive, MX 16-bit stereo sound board, microphone, two loudspeakers and three CDs: the new machine has a Cirrus VESA local bus board, 15″ monitor, 170Mb hard disk drive, 4Mb memory and comes pre-loaded with MS-DOS 5 and Windows 3.1; it is £1,900; the kit is £400.
1993	Northampton-based portable peripherals supplier Ranger Ltd has introduced a new version of its RangerDisk3 personal compatible floppy disk drive for use with Psion Plc Series 3 handheld : it is intended as more convenient means of backing up or transferring Series 3 files than Psion's Comms Link; RangerDisk3 has its own version of MS-DOS and connects to the Series 3 via a Psion serial adaptor; it can be used with the 128Kb and 256Kb models; the operating software is built in so avoiding the need for program installation on the Series 3; file transfer is by the XModem protocol; it is £200 from Ranger.
1993	Acer Group Inc is betting on Microsoft Corp's Windows NT by developing a MIPS Technologies Inc R4000 and R4400 six-chip set specifically for NT personal .
1993	Acer will introduce a line of Formula 64-bit PICA personal at Comdex Spring and will sell the blueprints and OEM motherboards to other vendors.
1993	Acer intends licensing the bus to the personal industry.
1993	At $5,000, the design kit will include all hardware, firmware and software necessary to build a Windows NT-capaMIPS-based RISC personal .
1993	The company says that the programme has already roped in SmartStar Corp, which does proprietary language applications on Digital Equipment Corp hardware;— Inmark Development Corp, which specialises in applications for the banking and brokerage community and tools for the C++ development market; Tivoli Systems Inc with its software for managing distributed systems; and The Digist Software Co division of the Turing Institute in Scotland, which provides shrink-wrapped spatial-data-processing applications for the AM/FM and geographic information systems markets.
1993	Accordingly, the company has teamed with the Wollongong Group Inc and Datability Inc to produce an ARPA Telnet-derived system, Telnet/OLTP, which is designed to enable systems to support more users in large commercial transaction processing environments.
1993	Telnet/OLTP is claimed to provide significant gains in transaction processing efficiency by decreasing central processing by up to 50% and by decreasing Telnet traffic on the network by up to 90% — and existing Telnet applications are compatible with Telnet/OLTP.
1993	The new Earth Data System is designed to facilitate the collection and analysing of environmental-impact data by enabling the data to be gathered from many different types of that are geographically dispersed and often incompatible.
1993	In moving to a SmartStream client-server environment, most organisations would have to replace predominantly dumb end-user terminals with more expensive personal clients needed to run the Windows front end and other tools as well as buying a slew of different software packages, albeit from a single supplier.
1993	It supports Intel Corp 80486, Hewlett-Packard Co 9000, Data General Corp AViiON, VAX 4000 through 8000 and OS/2 servers and personal clients running Windows.
1993	Weak demand for Amdahl's mainframe product and severe price erosion in the mainframe industry should continue due to the impact of desktop computing, it said, adding on the upside that Amdahl maintains a strong balance sheet despite recent operating losses and also benefits from Fujitsu Ltd's 46% ownership stake in the company.
1993	IRG Technologies Inc, Richardson, Texas distributor of peripherals, filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission to go public with an initial offer of up to 2.75m common shares, 2.3m of them new, at a target price of between $10 and $12 a share to raise some $25m to repay debt and for working capital; Montgomery Securities, Kemper Securities and Raymond James & Associates will co-manage.
1993	OPTi Inc, Santa Clara designer of a range of core logic chip sets for 80386 and 80486 desktop and notebook , filed with the US Securities & Exchange Commission to go public with an initial offer of 2.5m shares, 2m of them new, at a target price of between $9 and $11 per share.
1993	AW Systems Inc has reported fourth quarter net profits up 630.8% at $795,667, after $84,835 tax credits this time and $58,269 tax credits last time, on turnover up 78.7% at $3.4m; net profit for the year to December 31 was down 11.9% at $1.9m, after $339,000 tax credits this time and $864,000 last time, on turnover that rose 2.9% to $9.2m.
1993	Louis Gerstner received a lesson on Friday on just how tough it will be to lead IBM Corp in the midst of its economic woes, as he was showered with difficult questions about his qualifications to lead a company, Dow Jones & Co reports: Gerstner was also asked to explain why he left RJR to lead IBM —‘I thought this was an extraordinary opportunity,’ he said, and asked if he felt he had completed his job at RJR, Gerstner responded ‘I don't think the job is ever finished as chief of a large company.’
1993	The TE Electronics Inc manufacturing subsidiary that Tandy Corp plans to spin off, says it will take a $20m charge against results for the first half to December 31 to cover the cost of the proposed sale of its Micronic hand-held operation and a decision to close two small European offices of the Tandy/GRiD Europe subsidiary.
1993	Foster City, California-based Blyth Holdings Inc says that the Norwegian Police Force has chosen to standardise on the company's Omnis Seven Plus Windows-based software on thousands of personal to be linked to unidentified Unix servers running the Ingres relational database management system.
1993	In what is being seen as the first licensing by Apple Inc of its Macintosh technology, the company has signed an OEM agreement that enables Honeywell Inc to use the Mac interface in avionics systems: Honeywell will use the technology to drive management information systems for commercial airline cockpits, building an Electronic Library System incorporating an adapted avionics version of Apple's Macintosh Quadra 800 high-end box.
1993	Compaq Ltd is to bundle Microsoft's Windows Sound System software into its DeskPro/i and DeskPro/M personal ; the software provides features like ‘ProofReader’ which speaks numbers and spreadsheet terms and which is supported by Excel 3.0 and 4.0, and Lotus 1-2-3 for MS-Windows; also there is voice recognition with Voice Pilot, a number of other audio recording and manipulation features and Music Box 2.0 for compact disk access and playback.
1993	ASSOCIATES TO LICENSE CHEYENNE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS
1993	Associates International Inc, Islandia, New York, is to license Cheyenne Software Inc's local area network storage technology device drivers for its network back-up and archiving systems.
1993	Courageous decisions are nevertheless sometimes called for, so is this the right time to appoint a industry outsider to te top job at IBM?
1993	It takes a diligent journalist with a technical education two years of intense effort just to begin to feel confident of expressing an opinion on anything material about the industry, and thereafter the next four or five years will be dogged by mistakes that are intensely embarrassing to recall.
1993	Apple Inc chief John Sculley reckons it is essential for the head of a company to have a clear grasp of technological directions and acknowledged that it took him several years before he felt confident to take strategic decisions.
1993	Moreover on a single decision — do we license this environment to the rest of the industry or do we keep it to ourselves — can depend the entire future of a company, with the wrong decision spelling oblivion.
1993	Control Data Corp, Memorex Corp, Storage Technology Corp, and those thrusting newcomers Seagate Technology Inc and Tandon Corp, which had seen off such old-timers as Shugart Corp and Pertec Corp.
1993	In the meantime, we have seen the rise and fall of Memories Inc, MiniScribe Corp, Priam Corp, PrairieTek Corp and Rodime Plc, each a hot property at one stage in its career.
1993	Even blindingly obvious and crucial insights don't usually come instantly — it took us 24 hours to realise that the part-concealed agenda behind IBM's December closures was that the company was signalling the death of the mainframe, a couple of months to realise that the executive search committee of IBM non-executive directors hadn't a clue what it should be looking for in a new chief executive for IBM — because they themselves didn't have the industry background they needed to recognise how vital such a background would be to the person assuming the post.
1993	But to what extent to customers really tell a company all it needs to know?
1993	One of the most striking features of IBM's lamentable personal business is that there is not a single reason embedded in the hardware why IBM mainframe and AS/400 users should buy their personal from IBM rather than from its army of tormentors led by Compaq Corp: presumably few customers have actually asked IBM for 3270 and 5250 emulation in ROM on the motherboard at no extra charge in its PS/2s — or perhaps IBM thought that would kill off its dumb tube business and resisted until it was too late — now it makes no money on personal and sells few dumb tubes.
1993	Hui says that because the source code is written under the assumption that the user knows both J and C, someone that knows APL and C will find J much easier to use than someone who knows only C. Another advantage is that J can run on a range of boxes, including the RS/6000, Digital Equipment Corp VAX, Apple Inc's Macintosh and iAPX-86 personal .
1993	It runs on 80386 personal under Windows 3.0, on Apple Inc Macintoshes and on Sun Microsystems Inc workstations and needs 4Mb RAM.
1993	Conforming to Apple Inc's Communication Toolbox, Dedial comprises two complementary modules, Systeme Dedial and Dedial Revamp.
1993	The Speech Commander Desktop co-processor with signal processing includes a developers toolkit for creating speech interfaces under Unix and interfaces to workstations and personal over RS232 connections: prices go from $2,800.
1993	Mitsubishi Electric Corp is said to be looking to the second source agreement with Digital Equipment Corp on the Alpha RISC to build a new base for its semiconductor business: the company gave up manufacturing its own mainframe and mid-range several years ago, in favour of selling IBM Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co machines on an OEM basis, and focusing its strategy on client-server systems, where it was assisted by its purchase of the Apricot Ltd hardware division — but Apricot insists that it is 100% wedded to the Intel Corp iAPX-86 architecture and has no plans to build Alpha machines, although if the instruction comes in from Tokyo, it won't have much option; there is an element of two-timing in Mitsubishi Electric signing up with DEC because it is already a member of the Hewlett-Packard Precision RISC Organisation.
1993	Trading giant Mitsubishi Corp has gained exclusive sales rights for Japan to the SNA ps5520 software package that connects the IBM Corp AS/400 used as a host with the Apple Inc Macintosh as a client: the company already sells a similar package which connects IBM mainframes and Macs; the software, as reported, was developed jointly by IBM and Apple, and has been localised by a Mitsubishi-related software house and the package will be sold through IBM Japan office systems dealers, Mac dealers and systems integrators; the SNA ps3270 emulator is already installed on a trial basis at some 10 large companies, Mitsubishi says; it looks to sell around 5,000 copies over the next year.
1993	The Japanese Ministry of Education's National Institute of Fusion Science says that its NEC Corp SX-3 Model 24 supercomputer successfully fulfilled all the requirements specified in the initial contract bid: the contract was concluded last June, and was the subject of a challenge by Cray Research Inc late last year, and Cray was permitted to observe the operation of the new ; according to the Nikkei Industrial News, Cray complained that it was unable to obtain sufficient data on hardware issues such as NEC magneto-optical installed with the SX-3, which NEC claims are the fastest in the world, and on the ultra high-speed HIPPI channel linked to them; on the software side, Cray said that it was not able to obtain information on the efficiency of the automatic parallelising function; for its part, NEC announced simply that the supercomputer was in full operation.
1993	PEOPLE BLAMES STALLED MARKET AFTER DEVALUATION FOR PROFITS PLUNGE
1993	People Group Plc saw lower profits for the year ending December 31 than were expected at the interim stage due to a drop in recruitment revenues in the UK and lower volume sales of consultancy services in the US.
1993	Research Inc has reported first quarter net losses of $320,391 up from $250,069 losses last time, after $136,866 losses from discontinued operations last time, on turnover from continuing operations down 8.9% to $1.1m.
1993	People Group Plc has reported net losses of £135,000 for the year to December 31 against profits of £1.4m last time, after £646,000 gains related to the release of taxation provisions on the roll-over of previous capital gains last time, on turnover that fell 7.3% to £62.7m.
1993	Microsoft Corp chairman Bill Gates is to introduce MS-DOS 6 at a US-wide satellite broadcast to personal users this evening, but according to Reuter, the company has had record orders for it already: Microsoft plans a $7 promotion to entice customers to buy discounted versions of MS-DOS 6 and its other products, and says that orders for it are incredible, already exceeding the record-setting pace of MS-DOS 5, which was launched in the late spring 1991.
1993	Apple Inc said at CeBIT it plans to start shipping Newtons in the summer at a price ‘significantly lower’ than $1,000, aiming initially at business users: features will include handwriting recognition, diaries and notepads, paperless facsimile messaging and wireless message transfer, Apple says.
1993	A group of 15 European firms in a range of businesses have come together to create the European Software Institute to improve skills in developing software: the Institute, to be based in Bilbao, Spain, will work with customers on software processes and methodology, according to Compagnie des Machines Bull SA vice-president Georges Grunberg, who is the acting chairman; the other founders are Bilbao Bizkaia Kutxa SA, GMD SA, Eritel SA, Finsiel SA and Iberdrola SA from Spain, British Aerospace Plc, the Electricity Supply Board, Lloyd's Register and Logica Plc, Sema Group Plc, Cap Gemini Sogeti SA, Telecom Ireland, Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG and Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA; each of the founders will pay $118,000 a year for three to five years to fund the Institute, which will have a staff of about 50; it hopes to build its membership up to between 100 and 300 companies in the medium term.
1993	At CeBIT Fair in Hannover Ericsson Business Networks and Intel Corp have been showing an emulation of a jointly-developed personal board designed to enable Windows machines to be linked to PABXs: the personal is linked to the switch through a standard ISDN-type connection so the micro can receive facsimile messages, voice-mail, video communications and the like — the thing is expected to appear as a product late this year.
1993	Ottawa-based Corel Corp has an OEM agreement with Compaq Corp under which it will offer its CorelDraw graphics package through the new Compaq DirectPlus direct response marketing service: it will be sold separately to start with, but may be offered pre-installed later.
1993	Zenith Data Systems Europe, Compagnie des Machines Bull SA's microcomputer subsidiary, announced eight new models of its Z-Station desktops, five ‘network-ready’ Z-Note and the Z-Lite 320L, which it calls a ‘subnotebook’: the Z-Stations are based on the Intel 80486DX/2 66MHz and 50MHz and the 33MHz 80486SX processors; three of the new Z-Note models are based on the Intel 80486SL chip, and two on the 25MHz 80386SL, and also feature a passive matrix colour display; the Z-Lite 320L weighs 4 lbs and uses the 3.3V 80386 SL chip, which provides for between three and six hours of working between charges.
1993	Progress Software Corp says that Progress/400 4GL for the IBM Corp AS/400 is now available, and is designed to enable users to develop applications for deployment on the AS/400 using 5250 block mode terminals; applications can be developed on a personal or direct on the AS/400 and deployed as client-server or native AS/400 systems.
1993	Apple Inc introduced a system software promotion called ‘Take Off With System 7’ which will give end users in the US rebates of $5 to $20 when they buy System 7 software and one of 55 participating third-party software products: the programme runs out on June 30.
1993	Clarifying the details of AT&T Co's Personal Video System Model 70 Windows-based teleconferencing system (CI No 2,034), the system transmits information over standard digital phone lines using the Px64’ international video standard at a rate of 10 to 15 frames per second, and the $7,000 price requires you to bring your own ; the control unit, to be available in the US in the fourth quarter of this year for between $60,000 and $200,000 will enable up to 24 users to be linked in a video conference.
1993	Thomson-CSF SA says its Syseca unit won a contract worth several million dollars to provide a turnkey system to send messages between 29 European civil aviation agencies: the contract, awarded by Eurocontrol, which oversees air traffic control across Europe, calls for installing the system by end-1993, and the contract is part of a vast programme to link up Europe's air traffic control systems — the present fragmentation is one of the key causes of the air travel delays; the Central Flow Management Unit system will be based on Syseca's Aermac product, and will collect flight plans from the World Civil Aviation Network, the SITA airline network SITA and from air traffic control centres; it will be installed at two central sites, at Haren, Belgium and Bretigny-sur-Orge, France, using Stratus Inc fault-tolerant systems connected via an X25 packet-switched network.
1993	ICL Plc's Helsinki-based ICL Data Oy yeeased its domination of the Finnish market by buying all the operations of Oy Mercantile Data Ab apart from its business of importing and marketing Compagnie des Machines Bull SA .
1993	HaL Systems Inc, Campbell, California, remains secretive as ever, but a few details have emerged about the Fujitsu Ltd-backed company's plans — although some of it may be dated.
1993	At the unveiling of Sun Microsystems Inc's Solaris implementation of Unix for Intel Corp processors, Dell Corp finally confirmed that it will offer Solaris on its 80486 machines, and on its Pentium machines when they arrive.
1993	The process reaches its logical conclusion in OS/2 Version 2 and the news that Apple Inc and IBM have started a joint project that will produce a CICS client for the Apple Macintosh.
1993	As for how many personal could be supported by a local network-connected PS/2, the company admits that it simply won't know until the code is finished, but the implication is that it will be many more than 40, and that the local network might run out of capacity before the server will.
1993	To be called the Sparc Technology Business division, it will operate out of Sun Microsystems Corp offices in Mountain View, California, and is to be headed by Sun vice-president Derek Meyer.
1993	About a year ago, Eltec set up 15 Service Centres for the Public, CAPs, which deal solely with repairs for anything from personal and mobile phones to Nintendos.
1993	It was set up in 1985 as a pioneer of transaction processing monitors, but developed into a services company.
1993	And, as industry opens its eyes to the benefits of services, the balance is now changing.
1993	He believes the ‘crisis’ in the industry stems from the market changing from being technology-driven to customer-driven.
1993	Still, he does realise that service companies will feel the pinch too, and won't be immune from the effects of the personal price war.
1993	It has both acquired maintenance firm, Barcelona-based Morsa Mantenimiento de Ordensdores SA, which turned over $2.7m in 1991 and was also part of the Auguas de Barcelona Group, and last year, set up a subsidiary in Portugal, which it called LUMA.
1993	With the exception of software and services, the Spanish industry suffered negative growth in 1992.
1993	Psion Plc has made a strong recovery for the year to December 31 due to a large increase in both international sales and sales of its Series 3 range of handheld to the retail sector.
1993	The portable , data communications equipment manufacturer and software developer turned in pre-tax profits of £1.4m against losses of £2.2m last time.
1993	And he certainly believes that retail outlets offer massive sales opportunities for the company's Series 3 palmtop .
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has been chosen by 7-Eleven Japan Co Ltd to supply an open-system-based network worth more than $12.5m, which will link 7-Eleven headquarters in Tokyo and about 30 district offices throughout Japan: the system consists of five HP 9000 Series 800 business servers and more than 200 HP Apollo 9000 Series 700 workstations and HP 700/RX stations, to be linked to an Hitachi Ltd mainframe.
1993	Islandia, New York-based Associates International Inc says it is shipping release 2.0 of its CA-Cricket Draw III object-oriented drawing program for producing graphics on Apple Inc's Macintosh; the thing sells for $250.
1993	IBM'S PERSONAL PROMISE
1993	Trying to get an edge — which will count for very little unless the price is right, the IBM Personal Co says that all its new business-oriented personal will be designed to comply with the most comprehensive worldwide health, safety and ergonomic standards by year-end: the promise covers desktop and floor-standing units, displays and keyboards; it claims it will also be the first manufacturer in the world to test these products for compliance with the International Standards Organisation Standard 9241, which addresses the health, safety and comfort of display terminal users starting with premium PS/2s.
1993	Apple Inc yesterday took the new PowerCD CD-ROM product, announced at Hannover last week, to the US market, saying that it expects to sell 1.5m of the things by the end of this year; it also said it has shipped more than 1m copies of its QuickTime multimedia software since its launch in January 1992, and has formed a new unit, New Media to increase market access to multimedia technologies, expand multimedia content and develop new markets for Mac technology; the PowerCD comes with AppleDesign Powered Speakers claimed to deliver high-quality sound at half the price of similar stereo speakers.
1993	DEC TO OFFER ALPHA, PENTIUM PERSONAL AT SAME PRICE
1993	With both the Intel Corp Pentium processor and its own Alpha RISC chip ready to enter the personal market this year, Digital Equipment Corp is expected to get around the problem by offering parallel lines of nearly identical systems based on the two chips, US PC Week reports.
1993	President has increased its stake in Wang Laboratories Taiwan to 100% from 30% and bought a 51% stake in Wang Industrial, which manufactures personal .
1993	Wang Laboratories Taiwan has the right to use Wang's trademark in Taiwan and will make personal for Wang.
1993	Tatung Science & Technology Inc, San Jose is trying to extend the personal price war to colour workstations, and it is offering discounts of up to $2,800 on its new SuperSparc-based Super Compstation 7/30 Series.
1993	A Super COMPstation 7/30 with a 36MHz CPU, 520Mb disk, 32Mb memory, on-board GX graphics accelerator and a 19″ colour monitor will cost $13,490 in the plan; the Taiwanese company reckons that a similar system from Sun Microsystems Corp is currently list-priced at $20,500.
1993	Cray Corp, Colorado Springs, says it will start shipping its first scaled-down versions of the much-delayed Cray-3 in a bid to raise cash.
1993	Philips Electronics NV is in talks with Kaleida Inc, the multimedia joint venture of IBM Corp and Apple Inc on a common standard for multimedia products, according to Het Financieele Dagblad, which quoted John Hawkins, the head of Philips' Compact Disc Interactive multimedia group.
1993	Suddenly acquisitive Geac Corp Ltd, Toronto is now to acquire NBI Canada Inc, the Canadian networking systems subsidiary of the Boulder-based former dedicated word processor builder.
1993	The power and complexity of this latest offering makes it the world's fastest single-chip , according to its maker.
1993	ANSI C, C++ and Occam compilers are available for development on personal and Sun Microsystems Inc workstations.
1993	Among them were Parsytec GmbH and Parsys Ltd with their T9000-based supercomputers and Ektron Applied Imaging Inc with its Boss-9000 parallel processor.
1993	Chameleon chips will be aimed at the Transputer's traditional telecommunications markets, along with more mainstream markets, multimedia workstations and portables, database and computing servers.
1993	MCI Communications Corp's annual report sheds a little more light on the company's plans for alliances to deliver new services (CI No 2,139), saying that the company will use its high-speed digital telephone network as the base for multimedia services in alliance with other companies —‘With one intelligent, multimedia device — part telephone, part television and part — consumers will call up distant relatives and see them while they speak,’ the annual report says, and the company is not elaborating further; the report says ‘a number of trends are emerging, including multimedia wireless communications and distributed processing,’and MCI plans to be a player in these trends; it says the range of companies it is contacting regarding its consortium idea spans several industries under the broad definition of communications, but it is awaiting a response from the Federal Communications Commission to its proposal that consortia rather than individual companies be permitted to run Personal Communications Network before putting any discussions onto a formal basis.
1993	Singapore Airlines Ltd has awarded a five-year contract to Datamatics Pvt Ltd of Bombay to write software exclusively for the airline: Datamatics will develop software for reservations, cargo handling and departure control applications, and got the business because the airline found it so hard to recruit and retain personnel in Singapore; no value was revealed.
1993	Intel Corp launched its first video add-in board for personal users running Microsoft Corp Windows: the Intel Smart Video Recorder enables users to play back video segments recorded from various video sources by using Intel's Indeo video technology, and cost $700 — but the price includes software, including Microsoft's Video for Windows, that lists for about $800.
1993	TOSHIBA TO MARKET PORTABLE IN BRAZIL
1993	The Toshiba America Information Systems Inc unit of Toshiba Corp will begin to market its portable in Brazil through local distributor Intercorp Ltda: the company says it is beginning a long-term relationship with Brazil where it will offer its full portable product line — and the machines will be bang up to date—‘We will not sell discontinued products in Brazil as has been the case with other companies,’ the company added sniffily.
1993	IBM Corp's IBM Personal Co has added two members in the IBM Speech Recognition Family, VoiceType Control for Windows and VoiceType 2: VoiceType Control for Windows offers customers with an 80386SX processor and up the ability to manipulate the Windows 3.1 environment and existing Windows 3.1 applications with spoken commands such as File Save, Font Bold and Next Window; VoiceType Control for Windows costs $130, works with Sound Blaster audio boards, and is speaker-independent; VoiceType 2 is designed for general dictation and input to MS-DOS applications, and enables users to continue to control their existing applications, such as word processing, databases or spreadsheet, simply by talking; it comes ready to use with ‘many popular software products such as Quicken, WordPerfect 5.1, dBase and more’, and users can add their own commands; VoiceType 2, with the IBM M-Audio Capture and Playback Adaptor, runs on 80386SX and above personal and automatically adapts to a speaker's unique voice pattern and allows for accents and other individual speech characteristics; it costs $2,200 and will be available in late May.
1993	Personal makers are likely to face continued pressure to keep prices low for the foreseeable future, former Compaq Corp chief Rod Canion told Reuter in an interview: ‘Anybody that wants to be successful in the business better be prepared to be very aggressive and have a lot of aggressive competition — in that environment, you can predict pricing pressure is not going to ease up;’ Canion, now chairman of the Houston-based consulting firm Insource Management Group, says that in his time at Compaq, customers were willing to pay a little more to ensure they got quality and performance but that as the market changed, they believed they could get quality, performance and low price, and now, ‘that will never change.’
1993	2000 RAGES AT POLISH MEASURE TO WAIVE DUTIES ON IMPORTS FROM OUTSIDE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
1993	2000 AG's European marketing manager Jan Zakrewski has accused the Polish government of ‘Banana Republic behaviour’ after the government's implementation of its plan to waive import duty on equipment imported from outside the European Community appeared to confirm many Western vendors' worst nightmares.
1993	2000's partner in Poland, DHI, had initially welcomed the decision, arguing it would provide resellers with an opportunity to recoup lost margins.
1993	Under the scheme, Polish assemblers will be able to import systems and all ‘input and output devices’, as well as components, free of the 20% import duty previously applied — so long as their combined total value is less than $300m.
1993	As the Polish market is valued at around $360m a year, the latter condition is not likely to prove significant.
1993	Imports of equipment manufactured in the European Community are subject to lower rates of duty, but have not won a significant share of the local market.
1993	The companies that have the highest sales in Poland and stand to lose most unless they can restructure their import channels to take advantage of the quotas, include Dell Corp and Compaq Corp in the personal market; 2000 and ComputerLand Corp in distribution, and Hewlett-Packard Co, Star Micronics Ltd, Seiko Epson Co and Seikosha Corp in the printer market.
1993	CZECH REPUBLIC FEARS FOR SCIENCE AFTER BUDGET CUTS
1993	In an interview with the Central European Business Journal, Miles warned, ‘the Academy must continue to fill the void left by a non-existent private industry, until such time as scientists can be gainfully employed in the private sector.
1993	DTK OF TAIWAN OFFERS TSUNAMI BOXES: OPTION PLUS HAS THEM IN EUROPE
1993	Taiwanese company DTK Inc says it has a Tsunami-based Sun Microsystems Inc workstation compatible with three times the graphics performance of the Sun Microsystems Inc Classic.
1993	Recipients included Robert Fabry of the Systems Research Group at Berkeley; Deborah Scherrer, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory; and Bob Schiefler, X Consortium in the Academic Driver category; Mike DeFazio, Unix Labs, Armando Stettner, ex-DEC, Bruce Weiner, Mindcraft and Bob Marsh of Onyx and Plexus fame for Unix Evangelism; Steve Bourne, Vinton Cerf, Jon Mashey and Eric Schmidt for Technology; Jim Bell, Walter De Backer and Heinz Lycklama for Standards; Frame Technology, Informix, Oracle and Sybase for Applications; Larry Crume, ex-AT&T now Lotus, Geoff Morris, X/Open and Yoshiro Yoshioka, Fujitsu for Global Market Building; Hewlett-Packard, Santa Cruz Operation and Sun for Business Commitment; Burlington Coat Factory, DHL, Federal Express, Hyatt and Wal-Mart for using the stuff; Pamela Gray, Bill Joy and Doug Michels for Lifetime Achievement; Mike Azzara, Open Systems Today; Ed Taylor, Pencom; and our own Maureen O'Gara for Special Distinction.
1993	The former high-flying minimaker brought very low, now consists of service companies with main markets in Nordic countries and in the UK.
1993	Products Inc has reported fourth quarter net profits of $1.7m against losses of $10.7m last time, after $465,000 tax credits this time and $47,000 last time, and $5.2m losses from discontinued operations last time, on turnover that rose 43.4% at $29.9m; net profit for the year to January 3 stood at $2.7m against losses of $9.6m last time, after $674,000 tax credits this time and $91,000 last time and $5.5m losses from discontinued operations plus $6.3m restucturing charges last time, on turnover that rose by 37.9% to $114.8m.
1993	Salt Lake City, Utah-based Evans & Sutherland Corp has signed an agreement with Namco Ltd, Japanese creator of electronic games for technical and market co-operation to explore the possibility of using Evans & Sutherland's real time graphics products to assist Namco in creating the next generation of amusement arcade games machines.
1993	Sharp Corp says it has shifted production of low-value personal from Japan to companies in Taiwan and Korea: Taiwan's Twinhead International Corp will make notebook and while South Korea's Hyundai Electronic Industry Ltd will make desktops; annual requirement for both types is 40,000; the Nara plant in western Japan will now make mainly high value-added products such as the Newton.
1993	Copam Electronics Inc, describing itself as Taiwan's second biggest personal maker, is seeking court protection from its creditors after making a $19.2m loss in 1992 on sales of about $100m, and saddling itself with $77m bank debt.
1993	It looks for recovery on the back on a new pocket out next week.
1993	Sunnyvale, California-based massively parallel systems builder MasPar Corp has put the Prism video compression software from Prism Interactive Corp, Wheaton, Illinois up on its machines, and claims that the combination is the first system capable of producing broadcast quality Motion Picture Experts Group-compatible video output in real time.
1993	HUBRIS RULES AS ICL UNVEILS ERGONOMIC SPRING COLLECTION OF PERSONAL PRODUCTS
1993	ICL Plc has launched its Spring collection of personal and related products,(CI No 2,124), saying that ‘like the best fashion, ICL PCs are made for the individual’.
1993	The company called it the most significant announcement in its personal history, adding that it had two aims: firstly, to become the number one in personal systems in Europe; second, to be the number one supplier and implementor of choice for client-server technology.
1993	Furthermore, it believes it is not just another personal provider, saying that it can't simply ‘be compared with someone like Compaq’— it prefers to be thought of as a supplier of personal systems.
1993	Moreover, ICL's wholly-owned personal reseller, Technology Plc, believes that the company's new machines are unique in terms of style, their conformance to ergonomic standards — especially as, according to ICL, 1993 will be the year of ergonomics — and their inclusion of ICL's integrated Powermaster system, which is designed to conserve energy — if, after a pre-defined time, a user doesn't operate his mouse or keyboard, then a control program blanks out the screen.
1993	The benefits of this, the company claims, are minimal heat dissipation and power consumption, saving a customer $200 per workstation per year in electricity costs — in fact, it attests that if Powermaster was incorporated into every personal in the UK, then the UK would need one less nuclear power station.
1993	Then, there are eight models in the ErgoPro range — these consist of a range of personal and notebooks, aimed at the professional and large corporate user.
1993	Next in line is the ErgoLite range of four desktop , intended for the business or home user that wants a cheaper product.
1993	According to ICL, notebooks have two distinct uses: first, they are a user's only or main machine — so, it must be possible to plug them into a local network, and they must have the functionality of a standard personal .
1993	It reckons it is working towards completely redefining personal and terminals, and the new products are ‘designed to break down all barriers’.
1993	It is based on personal architecture, and can be directly attached to the local network in a client-server architecture.
1993	The EISA bus was originally developed by a consortium of nine companies led by Compaq Corp that did not want IBM Corp's pricey-to-license Micro Channel wished upon them.
1993	Unir will now be able to negotiate with large vendors and software houses on AT&T's behalf to facilitate Calico's transfer to the commercial market.
1993	Moscow-based Steepler has signed an agreement with Hewlett-Packard Co under which it will handle distribution of the HP Apollo 9000 series 700 workstations, marking the Palo Alto company's first reseller agreement for products other than its personal systems — previously all workstations were sold direct by Hewlett-Packard Moscow in partnership with local software partners; Steepler is planning to major on offering the machines for running graphics applications.
1993	It is available in client and server implementations for Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcstations and IBM Corp RS/6000s along with 80386 and 80486 personal .
1993	Also promised is soon is Version 1.5 of its personal package Rooms for Windows, to be followed by Rooms for X Window.
1993	Applications include mobile facsimile, data sharing and transfer and remote access.
1993	Calls can be made, answered and transferred directly from the terminal.
1993	The MD110 is also available as an open standard interface based around the European Manufacturers Association standard for Supported Telecommunications Applications, CSTA.
1993	Ericsson says the PABX can also interwork with Digital Equipment Corp's Integrated Telephony interface.
1993	Creative Applications Inc saw net profits for the year to August 31, including $63,000 gains, down 1.4% at $204,357, against 1991 figures that included $76,000 gains, on sales up 2.2% at $4.7m.
1993	IBM Corp's vast personal contract with the former Soviet Ministry of Education ended early with just 15,000 machines installed in schools and only 75% of those paid for, IBM Europe chief Renato Riverso told the Wall Street Journal; he also said that IBM has yet to receive its first payment on its $150m contract to provide Aeroflot with a modern reservations system.
1993	Munich-based consumer electronics group Schneider Rundfunkwerke AG, ravaged by personal price wars, says it cut its group loss to less than $45m 1992 from $90m the previous year, and it told Reuter it hopes to approach breakeven this year; 1992 sales were around $310m compared with $377m done in 1991.
1993	The Bulgarian Telecommunications Co, which last week gave contracts to Siemens AG, L M Ericsson Telefon AB, Alcatel NV and Northern Telecom Ltd under its $300m modernisation programme, says it will announce two more foreign investors shortly: ‘We will announce soon our partners for building up a surface satellite station and for introduction of a new digital overlay network,’ Antoni Slavinski, deputy chairman told Reuter; and a joint venture between Bulgarian Telecommunications Co and US Sprint International Inc will start operating on April 15; Sprint Business Telecommunications Co will enable customers in Bulgaria to link host and personal with others around the world, and says it already has some 50 applications, mostly from foreign companies operating in Bulgaria.
1993	The trouble with All Fools' Day is that every newspaper story suddenly looks suspect, but we assure subscribers that IBM Corp really is paying Louis Gerstner all that money it can't afford, that the sports shop that sells guns in Kingston really did close early and the UK government is considering a Congestion Charge, but we confess that we have no evidence that the next industry consortium will be a catch-all called Industry.
1993	There was a ripe collection of April Fool items flying around the industry this year, with BICC Plc's BICC Information Systems & Services promoting its underware, the first two items being BISS-SLIP for Synchronised Linked Internet Protocol and BISS-NICS Network Integrity Circuit Service, and Chase Research Inc of Nashville, Tennessee threatening to knock MS-DOS, Unix and NT off their perches with a resurrected CPM/93 version of the late lamented CP/M operating system — and comes on 300 8″ floppies, bundled with an 8″ floppy drive for $100; but the prize has to go for Hewlett-Packard Ltd, which yesterday announced new security features for its Vectra personal — User Fingerprint Recognition on all models, and both Photographic Recognition — a tiny camera in the middle of the screen that recognises you even when you come back with a tan, and Odour Recognition — designated users must not change their perfume or after shave — on 80486 models; not recognised?
1993	London-based Ideal Business Solutions Ltd claims to be the first to market with an 80486DX 66MHz notebook , the EPS-486: the machine has a 10″ active matrix colour display, PCMCIA slot, 4Mb of memory, 128Mb of RAM, a removable 200Mb hard disk, and a portable expansion unit, housing three 16-bit expansion cards; it weighs 6.4 lbs and costs a phenomenal £2,000.
1993	Vancouver-based Spectrum Signal Processing Inc has teamed up with Texas Instruments Inc and IBM Corp to develop a suite of multimedia products for the personal using the MWave standard: the first two will design, develop and test the first in a family of boards and IBM will apply the technology to multimedia markets such as video.
1993	Vodafone Group Plc's Vodata Ltd has launched a facsimile broadcast service, Vodafax Broadcast: users load information onto a personal or facsimile machine and send it to their unique number: information is automatically distributed to a predefined list of recipients, either immediately or at a pre-set time; there is a £25 connection charge, a £10 monthly charge for the first distribution list and a £5 monthly charge for subsequent lists; distribution costs from 10p to 14p per minute per recipient.
1993	Precision Software GmbH, the German distributor of Boulder, Colorado-based XVT Inc's graphical user interface builder is opening an operation in Swindon, UK, called Professional Software Ltd: the unit, run by former Cambridge Graphics sales and marketing manager, Paul Morgan, will take over XVT distribution from London-based Personal Workstations Ltd, which becomes a customer for it.
1993	Unix System Laboratories Inc's ex-director of strategic marketing Paul Calkin has surfaced as a principal in Systems & Software Integration & Distribution Inc where he and his staff are building a business consulting personal and low-end Unix companies on high-end strategic and sales issues.
1993	San Jose-based 3Com Corp's new LinkWatch Token Ring software enables personal equipped with the company's Token Ring adaptors to be monitored and controlled, either locally or remotely, from any SNMP-based management station: network managers can check network activity, obtain configuration data, manage personal network links and receive information about individual personal ; be available in July, LinkWatch Token Ring will be £325.
1993	The Common Open Software Environment — and IBM's attempt to woo Hewlett-Packard to its object-oriented Taligent operating system effort with Apple Inc — are thought to be manifestations of these talks.
1993	He denied suggestions that Hewlett-Packard might give up its Precision Architecture RISC architecture for the IBM-Apple Inc-Motorola Inc PowerPC, but said the two firms are ‘technically close’, and that Hewlett-Packard is ‘flexible’.
1993	IBM and Hewlett-Packard decided — or were persuaded by independent software vendors — that a common kernel wasn't a necessity for competing with NT — in Hewlett-Packard's view, ‘users don't give a damn about the kernel anyway, they need application programming interfaces,’ says European systems marketing manager Bernard Guidon.
1993	According to the Post, the government watchdog took the step because it is battling with the two companies over discount and marketing data, which it reckons it needs in order to determine whether it is paying fair prices for products.
1993	Latest victim of the IBM Corp workforce paring is the company's personal plant in Boca Raton, Florida, where 400 to 500 jobs are to go, leaving about 3,200, United Press International reports.
1993	IBM also announced that 35 marketing, finance and planning jobs are moving into Boca as it transfers the headquarters of its Latin American personal operation down to Florida from Mount Pleasant, New York by September.
1993	The Bi-Tronics port also enables status messages to be sent to users' screens when the printer needs servicing, paper or toner.
1993	The target markets will be based on the 3si's customer profile comprising — around 63% personal users; minicomputer users that account for 11%; technical workstation users that comprise 8%; mainframe customers at 5% and 13% of ‘others’.
1993	According to Norwell, Massachusetts-based market research firm BIS Strategic Decisions, 55% of the world's 100m personal will be local network-connected by 1995.
1993	Not only will this require disparate operating systems — commonly MS-DOS, Macintosh System and Unix — to work side by side, it will also involve the integration of several different network operating systems, even though Novell Inc's IPX/SPX protocol is fast becoming the de facto standard.
1993	It is this need for interoperability, which applies equally to printers as personal , that Hewlett-Packard is at pains to reflect — though without compromising printer performance.
1993	The company is at best ambivalent about the Network Printing Alliance however — yet another industry body set up to define a standard protocol, this time for distributed local network connected printers and personal .
1993	And it reckons its enhanced JetDirect technology, which enables the new printers to work concurrently with personal , Macs, Unix workstations and a variety of networks is an important step towards this goal.
1993	The software, which Data General is styling AV Image, is based on an SQL client-server architecture and runs on Windows-based personal , Motif-based workstations and X terminals networked via NetWare or TCP/IP to a relational database on an AViiON server.
1993	NEURAL SCIENCES OFFERS AN NTLINK BETWEEN ITS NEUDESK SIMULATOR AND NEURAL TECHNOLOGIES' NT5000 BOX
1993	Southampton-based Neural Sciences Ltd has co-developed an interface, NTLink, to connect its Windows-based simulator NeuDesk to the NT5000 box from Petersfield, Hampshire-based Neural Technologies Ltd.
1993	This will enable users to develop neural applications on their personal under Windows, and then download them to the NT5000 system, a stand-alone box that collects data from real world analogue and digital devices like microphones, cameras and other industrial sensors.
1993	Neudesk software for 80386SX personal and up is £385, the NT5000 machine begins at £2,500.
1993	Winchester, Hampshire-based Microware Systems (UK) Ltd has announced its Motion Picture File Manager that supports the playback of MPEG-encoded audio and video files running under its real-time VMEbus-based operating system OS-9 and portable OS-9000 version for 80386 and 80486-based personal .
1993	So, IDC's findings indicate that Unix is the most popular alternative to the mainframe, while personal linked by local area networks are next in line.
1993	He reckons that ‘the technology of the future will be based on the microprocessors, which started the personal revolution.
1993	If you think that Toronto vertical market turnkey systems integrator Geac Corp has been making rather a lot of acquisitions of late, well you ain't seen nothing yet.
1993	IBM Corp's personal business was around the break-even level or may have been profitable in the first three months of this year, the president of IBM Personal Co Robert Corrigan told the New York Times: he says he thinks ‘people will be surprised at how quickly we're bringing this business back,’ and that it should be solidly profitable before year-end; problem is that its closest rivals, Compaq Corp and Dell Corp, which both faced the same problems as IBM, adjusted to the change in the market much more quickly, and rushed appropriate machines out while IBM procrastinated, so that they are already strongly profitable while IBM is still having to build up momentum.
1993	Intel Corp, General Instrument Corp and Microsoft Corp are preparing to announce, any day now, a joint venture to develop a personal that will sit atop a cable television set to provide access to and control of interactive services offered via cable, the New York Times reports.
1993	DATAPRO BUYS ABS, SHORTLANDS FROM TRAFALGAR
1993	ABS Ltd, formerly the Allied Business Systems small business manufacturer, has long looked a vestigial part of the Trafalgar House Plc empire, too small to turn up in the annual report, and giving the impression that top management was unaware of its existence.
1993	If that was the case, well the Hove, Sussex-based company has now come to the boardroom's attention, and it, together with sister software company Shortlands Computing Services Ltd, has been sold to Datapro Ltd of nearby Horsham.
1993	Apple Inc is stepping up its efforts in the non-Macintosh market, and yesterday announced that its Apple USA unit plans to create a distribution channel to sell and support Apple imaging peripherals — laser printers and scanners — for Windows, and will work with Ingram Micro Inc, Merisel Inc and TechData Corp to recruit Apple resellers over the next year.
1993	As with a number of other companies, Pick has discovered that there are brains to be hired that previously worked in academia, the military, government and even the KGB.
1993	This looks like a rather odd product — there is already multi-user native Pick for the personal , and there is single-user Pick for MD-DOS, so is there a market for a version of Pick that will support multiple users, while a person sits on the server and uses MS-DOS?
1993	Microsoft will stop short of bundling the Sybase SQL Server that it plans to offer with Windows NT, but the two firms are working on a System 10-derived add-on package, with new tools, to appear in the third quarter, which will scale to personal , minicomputers and mainframes.
1993	Representatives from Compaq Corp's East European headquarters in Munich are trying to arrange a meeting with the Slovakian government in an attempt to persuade it to ease the currency regulations adopted by the National Bank in February.
1993	In a separate announcement ICL revealed that it is considering setting up a personal sales operation in the country.
1993	The Invitational Conferences division of Dataquest will hold a series of exhibitions in Central and Eastern Europe this June.
1993	ASSOCIATED EXPERTS ADDS COMPILERS FOR THE T9000
1993	Associated Experts BV in Amsterdam has announced the extension of its Expert compiler range to include T9000 compilers for K&R, C, ANSI-C, Fortran-77, Modula-2 and Pascal.
1993	Pacific Parallel Research Inc of Cardiff by the Sea, California has a T9000 interface for NuBus Macintosh with its Pac8 and Pac2 boards that can accept Inmos Ltd's T9000 DevTRAM module.
1993	The device will also implement Apple Inc's QuickRing bus protocol for data transfers of up to 200Mbps between NuBus boards.
1993	As a result, Computerwoche reports, the Dusseldorf-based company intends to spend less time and money on attending big shows, and in future will spend its cash on sponsoring staff and holding symposia that are more tuned in to customer needs.
1993	Olschewski had no worries about competing in the difficult personal market, saying ‘We are not concerned about unit numbers, but about quality.
1993	Open Accounting was originally developed on Hewlett-Packard Co's HP 9000 range, but has since been implemented for the RS/6000, Sequent Systems Corp boxes and Digital Equipment Corp's Alpha running OSF/1.
1993	IBM Corp's new chief executive is being swamped with gratuitous advice on what he should do to turn the company around, but that coming from Stephen Smith, who has tracked the industry for PaineWebber Inc for 11 years, is probably worth more of Gerstner's attention than most.
1993	These employ close to two-thirds of IBM's 300,000 strong workforce: remember that Dell Corp's success has come from engineering the best, lowest-cost distribution strategy, not to a better product.
1993	‘Can you name a hot personal software product written by IBM?
1993	ASK SYSTEMS WARNS OF LOSS
1993	Ask Systems Inc warns that it will only break even, and may make a loss for its fiscal third quarter, adding that the poor profit forecast results from its failure to close about $10m in sales in the period but that does not necessarily mean the company permanently lost those sales; the company said a significant amount of software licence sales it had expected for the quarter did not close in time.
1993	IBM Corp says its Personal Co shipped 30% to 35% more personal in the first quarter than it did during the year-ago period, and vice-chairman Jack Kuehler expects it to be ‘reasonably profitable’ in 1993 — but the personal business is now so volatile that making forecasts more than a quarter ahead is a mug's game: following Conner Peripherals Inc's warning on Friday that it is seeing oversupply and soft demand for disk drives (CI No 2,142), observers are saying that grey market prices for 80486s are now weak; Finis Conner said on Friday that Conner would have to slash production and payrolls in the months ahead to remain competitive —‘The market is in total disarray,’he said; ‘the pricing that has occurred in the last four to five days has been something I've never seen believes the booming personal industry is showing signs of slowing after being fuelled for over two years by the price war.
1993	Newtown, Pennsylvania-based Tseng Labs Inc began volume shipments last month of its ET4000/W32 graphics accelerator for integration into the Dell Corp performance series of personal .
1993	Atlanta-based Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc is now putting its Accura modems through stores: two modems are available at between $80 and $340, Hayes said.
1993	APPLE FIGHTS INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE BACK CLAIM
1993	Apple Inc says it is fighting a claim by the US Internal Revenue Service that it owes $290m in back taxes for 1987 and 1988: issues include transactions with offshore entities, transfer pricing and the timing of deductions; Apple has appealed to the US Tax Court.
1993	In an uncharacteristic move, IBM France SA yesterday launched a full bid for France's tenth largest software and services house CGI Informatique SA.
1993	The company has a US subsidiary, CGI Corp, which is an unwelcome investor in Horizons Corp.
1993	Demonstrating that it is beginning to get the hang of the personal mass market, IBM Corp's Personal Co yesterday announced three new 80486-based lines in its PS/ValuePoint family, in 40 different configurations — and the difference between the three models is not the processor — anything from a 25MHz 80486SX to a 66MHz 80486DX2, but the size of the box.
1993	Oracle Corp says that its Oracle7 Co-operative Server database is now up on Apple Inc's Workgroup Server 95 running A/UX, Apple's implementation of Unix, adding that the product is the result of over one year of joint development work between Oracle and Apple.
1993	This kind of puzzle is not merely of interest to intellectuals who study what is called game theory, an area of mathematics advanced by John von Neumann, who also happens to be the father of the stored program .
1993	And there is a very good example of this puzzle to be found in the business.
1993	Like the prisoner's dilemma and its variants, the buying problem can have a few complications.
1993	After that story was published, the discounting game, which had long since ceased to be a secret in the room, was a factor in the boardroom.
1993	Although France Telecom's Itineris Groupe Speciale Mobile phone service is still in its first six-month pilot phase, the operator has concluded a roaming agreement with Swiss PTT Telecom and a sales distribution agreement with Medes Communication SA, a joint venture between Daimler-Benz AG's subsidiary Debis GmbH and the Swiss distributor Metro AG.
1993	He is succeeded by Russell Planitzer, the company's chairman and the leader of the buyout group that has struggled since acquiring the former parent, Prime Inc in 1989.
1993	General Corp has turned in third quarter net up 78.5% at $391,000, on turnover that rose 17.2% to $4m; net profit for the nine months was up 147.7% at $587,000, after $150,000 charge related to the settlement of litigation last time, on turnover that rose 11.3% to $10.7m.
1993	As well as announcing the new ValuePoints (see front), IBM Corp's Personal Co cut prices on the multiprocessing version of its PS/2 Server 295 by 30% and added a PS/2 Server 195 fault-tolerant system that offers an ‘affordable’ growth path to the PS/2 Server 295 with starting price under $20,000.
1993	NEC Corp is forecasting unconsolidated net profit of $430m in the fiscal year just started, up from an estimated $344m for the fiscal 1993 just ended; the company sees strong demand for semiconductors in the US and Southeast Asia, and looks to launch of new personal , and domestic economic recovery around this summer following the government's economic package, including the expected supplementary budget, NEC said.
1993	Texas Instruments Inc cut suggested retail prices on its personal by $100 to $700: the TravelMate WinSLC is cut 5% to $1,900 and the TM4000 Win models are up to $700 cheaper; it also introduced a new Travelmate 4000 model, with an 80486 microprocessor, at $3,100.
1993	Moorpark, California-based TSL Holdings Inc, the new name for the holding company for Tandon Corp, is now buying in personal .
1993	JAPAN's FIRMS WANT STATE TO HELP PAY STAFF TO STAY AT HOME
1993	Times are so hard for the major Japanese manufacturers right now that they plan to lobby the government for financial aid to keep their surplus employees on the payroll.
1993	In the A7, the Single Chip A Series Mainframe Processor is combined with an 80486 companion processor, using the common iAPX-86 architecture dev-eloped by Unisys for its personal , Unix and CTOS machines; it is there to support Unix or OS/2 applications in parallel with the proprietary MCP/AS.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp, the company's hardware arm, will put the operating system in its end-user price book and AST Research Inc, CompuAdd Corp, Dell Corp, Toshiba Corp and Zenith Data Systems Inc, all of them companies committed to Solaris x86 since the middle of last year will take it OEM.
1993	In Europe it will move through Bacher, Bytek GmbH, DSD SA, ComTrad International, Merisel Europe, Scribona Sverige AB, Morse Ltd and Technology Plc.
1993	SunSoft says Solaris x86 will run on Intel Corp-based Acer, Advanced Logic Research, Grid, Olivetti, Apricot, Compaq Corp, Gateway, IBM, NCR and NEC machines even though it doesn't have OEM deals with these companies.
1993	These comprise IBM Corp and plug-compatible mainframes; small and large Unix boxes; mid-range systems, including the AS/400; and desktop systems, including Apple Inc's Macintosh and Microsoft Corp's Windows.
1993	SIP, Simple Internet Protocol, is compatible with different technologies on different and is backwards-compatible with existing IP technology.
1993	The technique requires queue managers at either end and IBM says that it has these have been written for all of its operating systems, plus Digital Equipment Corp VAX/VMS, Stratus Inc's badged System/88 machines, and Tandem Inc's Guardian operating system.
1993	The tools include Alsys' AdaWorld for native development on Sparc-based and RISCAda line for real-time embedded system development hosted on Sparc-based , targeting the Motorola 68000 family.
1993	According to Chairman Richard Guy, 1992 has been one of the most difficult years faced by Gloucester-based Sherwood Services Plc.
1993	In 1992, it took three competitors from the London insurance market under its wing: Cairn Systems with its Ingres-based technology and accompanying client list was bought for £200,000. £800,000 was raised through a share issue for the City division of Weir Systems (CI No 2,076) which also added open systems expertise more long term contracts.
1993	From the financial services market, Sherwood picked off Consort Data Ltd (CI No 2,017), with its personal stockbroking systems, for £250,000 — and has already notched up eight sales.
1993	It also sunk £255,000 into a joint vent-ure, Sherwood International Ltd (CI No 2,114), to buy the rights for the Informix-based life assurance system, Palace, from Beta (Europe) Ltd.
1993	The report said for over 10 years, IBM has been booking immediately all the revenues from some long-term leases, getting a residual value guarantee from Merrill Lynch & Co to bring the total of the lease payments plus the residual value up to the 90% of the sale price that accountants regard as prudent for a sales-type lease.
1993	Unlike most of its competitors, ICL Plc has managed to stay in the black for the year ending December 31 despite having experienced a ‘character-forming year for the industry worldwide’ and being forced to make major price cuts on its products.
1993	The personal systems business, based in Finland, saw sales increase 34% to £350m, and unlike personal vendors elsewhere, even managed to make a profit.
1993	Sherwood Services Plc Plc reported net profits for the year to December 31 up 34.7% at £2.0m, after £1.2m expenses resulting from the company's BS 5750 creditation bid and £0.5m credits resulting from restructuring of the company pension scheme, on turnover that fell 2.9% to £21.1m.
1993	Elonex Plc is to contract manufacturing of its personal to Cordata Ltd, described as a new company and not related to the Cor-data Technologies owned by Daewoo Electronics Co: this Cordata is building a £5.5m contract manufacturing plant in Cumbernauld, Scotland, where it expects to create 175 new jobs and make 100,000 personal a year, and Elonex will turn its North London plant over to final assembly and testing.
1993	Despite launching those 40 new ValuePoint models, IBM Corp says that it is still supply-constrained on the earlier models of ValuePoint but that supply will be strong for the new models: ‘Demand continues to outstrip supply with the models we currently have on the market,’ said Angelica Horaitis, director of value brands at the IBM Personal Co; she says IBM has learned and is ready with the new ones.
1993	It already makes black and white displays in the US, but demand for notebook personal with colour displays is growing, and Sharp says it would rather make these locally than export them from Japan, where they are still subject to perverse US anti-dumping duties.
1993	Isochronous Ethernet, which can carry voice, video, image and data at speeds up to 16Mbps, will be incorporated into IBM's family of ValuePoint personal by the first half of next year, Joe Panella, programme manager for IBM's Entry Systems Technologies Division in Boca Raton, Florida told US PC Week.
1993	To get round the fact that the CSMA/CD carrier-sense multiple access with collision detection protocol prevents two nodes from transmitting data at the same time, so that video signals could get interrupted, isochronous Ethernet time-stamps the packets so they can be guaranteed to arrive at the recipient's at the same time.
1993	Geac Corp, Aprkham, Ontario has made another acquisition, picking up Library Services International (Australia) Pty Ltd of Melbourne for some $800,000.
1993	Library provides CD-ROM network systems and database subscriptions to Australian libraries, and distributes the LIBS 100plus products in Australia; its sales are running at some $3.3m a year.
1993	Dell Corp finally brought its low-end Dimension range of desktop and notebooks (CI No 1,953) to Europe last week and cut European prices on its existing products by up to 18%.
1993	He sees a further shake-out of European personal manufacturer — with half the manufacturers disappearing in the next 18 months.
1993	What does one buy a software and services company for?
1993	Now, with the proposed acquisition of CGI, IBM is effectively saying that despite its vast army of surplus employees, it can't find 4,000 among with the skills, or the ability to acquire the skills to be found in an unexceptional middle-ranking software and services company — and the move is hardly a morale-booster for all the people within IBM that ply their trade in software and services.
1993	‘Our challenge is in the personal business.’
1993	Roach said while the Radio Shack stores have shown ‘strong profitability,’ sales growth in City stores has been ‘nothing short of phenomenal’and Incredible Universe stores will continue to show sales growth.
1993	‘The economy probably is better than it was a year ago, the retail business is strong and the general consumer electronics business at the present time seems to be running ahead of last year,’ Roach said.
1993	2000 AG is seeking to raise the equivalent of $3.25m in a two-for-nine rights issue, probably in mid-May.
1993	NEC Corp has taken a hit from Standard & Poor's Corp, which has placed the A-1 commercial paper rating of the NEC Industries Netherlands BV finance subsidiary on CreditWatch with negative implications, citing intensifying competition from local and international firms in Japan's personal market, creating further pressure on profitability.
1993	Apple Inc's Apple USA unit cut prices on the PowerBook Duo 210 4/80, Duo 230 4/80, Duo 230 4/120 and Duo 230 4/120 with modem, by between 10% and 18%: it says it is now catching up with the demand.
1993	Another one bites the dust: Zeos International Ltd reports that a US district court dismissed a class action shareholder suit against it because the plaintiffs failed to provide specific facts that were material to the trial: the suit was filed last September, alleging that the company failed to disclose the formation of its new subsidiary, Occidental Corp, to manufacture and market lower cost under a new brand name, a development revealed by the Wall Street Journal.
1993	Cursory reading of the financial pages over the past few months would have left the average reader with the impression that while the US and UK economies were laboriously but undeniable clambering out of the recessionary trough, Japan was flat on its back and looking like getting worse before it got better, and that high interest rates in Germany were plunging that economy into a recessionary black hole and dragging most of the rest of the continent with it — now comes a report from International Data Corp saying its Global IT Survey of 5,000 executives, 500 chief executives and finance chiefs, and 1,100 local network managers in six biggest economies indicates that growth in spending will rise 2% to 3% in 1993 and, surprise, surprise — the US and the UK should outperform the rest of Europe and Japan.
1993	Vancouver-based Spectrum Signal Processing Inc has teamed up with Texas Instruments Inc and IBM Corp to develop a suite of multimedia products for the personal using the MWave standard: the first two will design, develop and test the first in a family of boards and IBM will apply the technology to multimedia markets such as video.
1993	Direct sales manufacturer Elonex Plc, London N has won a two-year contract, estimated to be worth about £1m, to supply 80486-based desktop and network servers to the northwest regional electricity supplier Norweb Plc.
1993	Compaq Corp and Microsoft Corp came together in Washington yesterday to announce that they have entered into a comprehensive agreement to develop new products and markets and to make personal easier to use.
1993	Calling the agreement the ‘Frontline Partnership’, they say they will work together to develop operating system and hardware for easy-to-use systems, adding the sorts of features Macintosh users take for granted, advance personal technology with pen interface and audio capabilities — Microsoft is said to be impatient at the lack of applications for its Pen Windows operating environment, and the two will promote ‘Plug and Play’ to make software and hardware easier to integrate and use.
1993	Separately, Associates International Inc, which is already doing Unix versions of its mainframe software, is to do a version of its Unicenter systems management software for Microsoft Windows NT.
1993	IBM Corp has bought Bellevue, Washington-based Catapult Inc, which provides training in personal applications.
1993	The small business systems company, which never recovered from its capricious attempt to acquire Prime Inc, says it needs the bankruptcy protection to put together a plan to restructure its balance sheet.
1993	Minneapolis-based Zeos International Ltd has decided to get its local bus upgradable personal motherboards made for it by Intel Corp.
1993	Already Hewlett-Packard Co has gone about 70% of the way to fitting out its HP 9000 as well as its rapidly ‘opening’ HP 3000s with the facilities that mainframe users expect and demand, and machines like Sequent Systems Inc's Symmetries and NCR Corp's multi-80486 machines are offering the performance that mainframe users need at a fraction of the price IBM has traditionally demanded, and are not blind to the fact that to win mainframe users' hearts and minds, they will have to offer the stability and functionality and versatility of the mainframe.
1993	All the analysis ignores the fact that the product that is intrinsically the best almost never comes out as the winner in the market: in the immortal words scriptwriter Vincent Lawrence put into Mae West's mouth, when it comes to the market success of MS-DOS or the IBM Personal standard, goodness had nothing to do with it.
1993	The idea behind MXE is to combine the flexibility and storage capabilities of a with real-time call processing and signalling.
1993	At the CeBit show, the two companies demonstrated a personal running Microsoft Corp Windows, and equipped with a communications interface board jointly developed by Ericsson and Intel.
1993	The personal was linked by an ISDN 2B+D interface — as used by a digital telephone — to an Ericsson MD10 digital PABX.
1993	Members include Sun Microsystems Inc, Xerox Imaging Systems Inc, Access Graphics Inc, Excalibur Technologies Inc, Frame Technology Inc, Fujitsu Products of America and Laser Magnetic Storage International Inc.
1993	Examples of technology exchanges include the agreement between Hitachi Ltd and Oki Electric Industry Co to align on standards for embedded control chips, and the agreement between Hewlett and Convex Corp to cross-license compiler technologies.
1993	Precision RISC Organisation sponsor and senior members are Convex Corp, Hewlett, Hitachi, Hughes Aircraft Co, Mitsubishi Electric Corp, Oki, Samsung Electronics Co, Sequoia Systems Inc, Stratus Inc, Winbond Electronics Corp and Yokogawa Electric Corp.
1993	The Image Management Services software, a set of application modules that control the processing, storage, retrieval, and printing of document images, is expected to be available on the by the end of the year.
1993	Ingres in Eastern Europe, Russia Hewlett-Packard Co has taken a licence from Ask Systems Inc to distribute the Ingres relational database and application development tools throughout Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
1993	In Hewlett-Packard's view, ‘users don't give a damn about the kernel anyway, what they need is application programming interfaces,’ says European systems marketing manager Bernard Guidon.
1993	Users do not need to write programs, it says.
1993	CGI PRESSES HORIZONS TO AMEND ITS POISON PILL DEFENCES
1993	Horizons Corp's largest shareholder, CGI Informatique SA, itself under agreed offer from IBM Corp, is seeking to persuade other shareholders to overturn corporate policies that it thinks deter potential acquisition offers for the Mountain Lakes, New Jersey company.
1993	CGI Corp, US subsidiary of the Faris company, will present a resolution at Horizons' May 5 annual shareholders' meeting to ‘modify or terminate’ Horizons' shareholder rights plan and the golden parachutes in place to give the top officers a handsome pay-off should the company be acquired.
1993	CGI, which has 13.3% of Horizons, and is regarded by the board as a hostile shareholder, argues that the company's plans make it extremely difficult and expensive for another company to acquire Horizons, and must be eliminated to make management accountable and maximise shareholder value.
1993	Horizons' directors are opposing the proposal.
1993	Intel credited lower prices — which triggered a consumer buying spree — for the rise, and the company says that as well as storming sales of 80486 microprocessors, there was also good demand for standard semiconductors, and networking and system level products.
1993	Intel says it saw strong demand in the US and Japan, where orders rose significantly as the market was stimulated by lower personal prices.
1993	IBM Corp is a major beneficiary of a $400m 10-year contract won by El Segundo, California-based Sciences Corp from the US Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management: the contract, which includes the installation and integration of about 7,000 IBM RS/6000s, is to provide a new automated land and mineral record system at 221 offices of the agency at 156 sites, primarily in the west.
1993	Apple Inc added three models to the Performa personal line aimed at first time buyers: the Macintosh Performa 405, 430 and 450 are expected to cost between $1,300 and $1,850; the Performa 400 models include a facsimile modem from Mountain View-based Global Village Communication Inc, automatic bill paying and Apple Club Performa support services.
1993	Apple Inc has turned to Micro Focus Plc — who else?— for Cobol products for its A/UX Unix: the Micro Focus Cobol development environment, available under MS-DOS, Windows, OS/2, Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix/386, RS/6000, AIX and over 500 other Unix systems, will be available under A/UX later this quarter via Micro Focus.
1993	NEC Corp is entering systems integration agreements with Digital Equipment Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co in Japan, and plans to offer the two companies' RISC-based servers alongside its personal : it says its primary focus will be the market for multimedia systems.
1993	Canon Systems Inc has now launched its NoteJet 486 notebook with built-in micro Bubble Jet printer in the US at from $2,500.
1993	The ministry source noted several possible scenarios, from the sale of individual divisions of Bull, which would enable it to eliminate unprofitable activities, to the taking on board of new investors, to the complete dismantling of the French maker.
1993	On the positive side, it would secure the only international outlet for its mainframes, and with Zenith Data Systems and Bull Micral, would finally be able to shed its also-ran image in the world personal market; on the negative, there would be the threat of re-nationalisation under a new administration.
1993	Lending the lie to the sceptics that saw no hope of NeXT Inc winning any significant licensees for its object-oriented NeXTstep environment now that the company has abandoned its hardware side, the company yesterday announced that three blue chip names, Hewlett-Packard Co, Dell Corp and Data General Corp had signed up for the NeXTstep 486 version.
1993	Many had assumed that with the emergence of the Common Open Software Environment, those reports of negotiations between Hewlett and NeXT were wide of the mark (CI No 2,080) but not so: Hewlett-Packard says it will offer iAPX-86-based personal certified to run the software.
1993	Data General, which offered NeXT workstations for use with its AViiON servers for a time, says it is working with NeXT to make NeXTstep available on its line of Dasher II 486 personal .
1993	The paper said the companies were discussing building an inexpensive derived from the three-dimensional Silicon Graphics R4000 64-bit RISC-based Iris machines used by movie studios to create special effects, which would attach to television sets and make possible a variety of interactive games and other applications.
1993	Metaphor Systems Inc, Red Brick Systems Inc, Information Builders Inc and Seachange Ltd have added relational and non-relational database access to the gateway.
1993	Embedded house Force Inc, Campbell, California, which previously worked with the Sparcstation 1 and 2, has signed for the 10.
1993	Themis Systems Inc, on the other hand, is using the Classic to create the SparcLXE with VMEbus for embedded applications, priced at $4,000 in lots of 100 with 8Mb DRAM.
1993	HUNGARY's KONTRAX CONGLOMERATE HITS CASH-FLOW PROBLEMS BUT SAYS IT's NORMAL IN HUNGARY
1993	Kontrax Group, the large Hungarian telecommunications and concern, announced plans to restructure three of its key majority-owned companies after admitting cash-flow difficulties.
1993	Since its humble beginnings as a photocopier distributor working out of a garage, the company expanded rapidly and diversified into and telecommunications, accumulating 16 subsidiaries and spawning foreign subsidiaries in Poland, Bulgaria and the Czech and Slovak Republics in the process.
1993	Nearly 10% of the company's revenues were earned outside Hungary through its East European subsidiaries, and nearly half its revenues and a third of its profits came from its office automation subsidiary — which recently concluded a dealer agreement with Compaq Corp.
1993	In the distribution sector, Kontrax Office Automation Plc aims to take on the distribution of more products and launch a franchised dealer network while continuing to service large accounts direct.
1993	2000's FLEDGLING HUNGARIAN UNIT SHOWS PROMISE
1993	While 2000 AG fumes over the potential implications of the Polish government's decision to waive duty on the imports of local assemblers (CI No 2,140), indications are emerging that the company's six-month-old operation in Hungary is beginning to perform after a troubled start.
1993	2000 lost its Hungarian managing director a month after opening in August 1992 and experienced difficulties with suppliers, according to Szilvassy.
1993	DEC is widely held to be the largest foreign company in the country, although IBM Corp's turnover is unknown.
1993	It runs on 80386-based personal , though 80486's are recommended.
1993	BIOSIGNAL PROCESSING, LINKING MUSCULAR, EYE MOVEMENT SIGNALS TO , DRAWS THE CROWDS
1993	Biocontrol reckons this to be much cheaper than current eye-tracking and visualisation systems and to be suitable for a host of applications ranging from medical research through games to lie detectors.
1993	This contains a software interface for personal and can also link to devices such as synthesisers or video recorders.
1993	Research and development licences for a system comprising the eight channel BioMuse and software development kit, headband and armbands are available from Biotronics for $10,000.
1993	Industrial applications include two- and three-dimensional eye controllers for virtual reality applications and video games using head-mounted displays, biosignal pattern recognition for teleoperator robotics, two- and three-dimensional eye controlled mice; stress management systems for cars or work environments and audio pattern recognition.
1993	Primary Image Ltd from Kingston-upon-Thames says it is working on a new version of its Stride multichannel graphics system that will enable users to scan photographic images on personal .
1993	The bus board, which can be customised with a range of optional modules, includes a number of high performance processors and co-processors designed to place a minimum load on the host personal processor.
1993	The software requires a personal capable of running AutoCAD Release 11 with a 40Mb hard disk.
1993	The personal business doubled year over year, as it expanded its presence in desktop machines, and service revenues grew by 12%.
1993	Compaq Corp has restructured its field and reseller support operations in the US to increase interaction with its customer base and to improve support for Compaq resellers: it will reorganise field resources to five from eight regional areas across the US, centralise major support resources for resellers in Houston, and eliminate surplus field employees, although the number to go was not announced.
1993	MAI Systems Corp, the Irvine, California maker of small business that just filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection (CI No 2,147), listed $26.1m in assets and $145.0m in liabilities; Brooke Group Ltd, which is controlled by MAI chairman Bennett LeBow, owns 82.3% of MAI's voting securities; the largest unsecured creditor listed in the filing was Chemical Trust Co. of California, trustee for $40m of 11.75% senior subordinated debentures; the obligations listed for most of the other creditors were mostly for $4m or less.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp has won a $3m contract from China's Baoshan Steel to link the mill's into the largest network DEC has sold in Asia, regional president Edmund Reilly said: a 40-mile optical fibre system will link all of Baoshan's existing and future into a single, integrated enterprise network, Reilly told Reuter, and will provide videoconferencing services for the plant outside Shanghai; DEC was chosen because of its well-established Chinese sales and service network that includes licenced local partners and offices in Shanghai, Peking and Guangzhou, Reilly said.
1993	Cincinnati Bell Inc reports that the Federal arm of its Cincinnati Bell Information Systems won a systems management contract that could run for five years and be worth up to $41m to support the Federal Transportation Center in Washington DC: the centre supports Federal Highway Administration, US Coast Guard, Federal Transit Administration, Research & Special Programs Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Federal Maritime Administration.
1993	GRID SYSTEMS UNVEIL NEW 80486SL BASED NOTEBOOK
1993	Tandy Corp's GRiD Systems Corp, soon to depart with the divestment of the TE Electronics Inc unit, has unveiled new light-weight, modular 80486SL-based notebook , the GRiD 4025 line at from $2,100; it simultaneously began GRiD Direct direct selling of its machines via a toll-free 800 number in the US and also cut prices on its GRiD Convertible pen-enabled notebook and said Slate Corp's GRiD Convertible Pen Essentials applications will be bundled with the Convertible notebook for $2,500; the lower price is good only until May 31.
1993	COMPAQ SIGNS DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT WITH BEIJING STONE GROUP
1993	Compaq Corp has signed a distribution agreement with Beijing Stone Group Co Ltd, China's largest private distributor, giving it access to Stone's 100-plus sales outlets: it already has agreements with five other distributors for the vast Chinese market.
1993	Compaq Corp, Houston lowered the price on its Pagemarq 20 network printer by 16% to $3,600; prices on key printer options, like memory modules and network interface boards were cut by up to 33%.
1993	The roster of companies signed up to offer or make available the object-oriented NeXTstep environment grew still more impressive late on Wednesday when Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, Epson America Inc and NEC Technologies Inc all said that they would offer NeXTstep on 80486 and Pentium personal from May 25; NeXTstep, $800, the development system, $2,000 will be distributed by Ingram Micro Inc, integrated by SHL Systemhouse Inc.
1993	The software also runs in a variety of environments from mainframes to client-servers to personal , and, he added, can, therefore, be used on a company-wide basis.
1993	Moreover O'Connell believes that the commoditisation of the hardware industry means it is only a matter of time before software becomes a commodity too.
1993	This was developed in conjunction with Stratus Inc, and should start shipping in November.
1993	It will enable embedded systems designers to write applications on personal or under Unix.
1993	INTEL's GROVE WARNS ON PERSONAL PRICE WAR, SEES JAPAN A WINNER IN PORTABLE ASSISTANTS
1993	The fact that this was the first downsizing show to be held in Japan is in itself an indication of the major change taking place in the Japanese market, which has been even more mainframe-centric than the US and Europe, and indicates the strong power of the economics of small computing.
1993	The more interesting challenge to Japanese manufacturers is posed by the arrival of personal vendors such as Compaq Corp and Dell Corp — good customers of Intel — into the Japanese market.
1993	Three major Japanese manufacturers are jointly investing in a new business for the manufacture and sale of Compact Disk-Read Only Memory optical drives.
1993	The manufacturers hope that this will lead to increased sales of their workstations and personal that have CD-ROM drives installed, and in the future hope to develop the multimedia side of the business.
1993	Dallas-based Texas Instruments Inc says it plans 1993 capital spending of $650m, a rise of $220m from a year ago, in anticipation of double-digit growth in the world semiconductor market this year, including 25 pct in the US market; it expects the Japanese semiconductor market to grow at 5% this year, with the Japanese economy beginning ‘slow recovery’ in the second half; it said it has shipped more than 100,000 of its new SuperSparcs in a year, and expects to release several client-server products this year; commenting on first quarter figures (page seven), it added that software revenues for the first quarter were lower than expected, leading to a small loss in its information technology business; it continues to see strong demand for notebook and printers.
1993	Compaq Corp says that the restructuring of its field and reseller support operations in the US to increase interaction with its broadened customer base and provide enhanced support to its resellers (CI No 2,148), will cost about 150 field employees their jobs, but the loss will be partially offset by an as-yet-undetermined number of employees to be hired at the company's Houston headquarters as part of the reorganisation; the 150 to go are the last of the 1,000 jobs that it said it planned to cut in October.
1993	All Wednesday evening and into the night, companies trickled in with announcements that their kit was being used as part of Nynex Corp's new Nynex Enterprise Services high capacity digital private line service (CI No 2,148): the system will use more than 100 Sparcserver systems from Sun Microsystems Corp to provide the services, and they will use Tivoli Systems Inc's software to manage the services; Dynatech Corp's Parallax Graphics unit supplied its XVideo system to display digital video coming from up to two channels of live video display and one-channel video output, and Synernetics Inc, based in North Billerica, Massachusetts says it will supply a switching hub for the Enterprise Fibre Distributed Data Interface part of the system.
1993	For those that actually trust people like the electricity and the gas company and the local council sticking grubby little fingers into their bank accounts without let or hindrance, Finchley, North London-based Telesmart Ltd has launched ADDACS Connect, an MS-DOS software package designed to process changes to those iniquitous direct debit transactions automatically: direct debit originators can link their to the Automatic Direct Debit Amendment and Cancellation System provided by the UK Bankers Automated Clearing Service, to retrieve direct debit changes; the £1,000 package is available now.
1993	DEC is also expected to launch a range of Alpha and Pentium personal running Microsoft Corp Windows NT this summer.
1993	The 150MHz Alpha-based personal will be a tower system and is scheduled for introduction the end of May.
1993	DEC has not had a top sales executive since John Shields left the company in 1990 to take over the helm at doomed Prime Inc.
1993	Apple Inc's fiscal second quarter margins slumped to 38% from the company's traditional 42% to 45%, and there is no cheer to come from the European market.
1993	However, the group's work has been endorsed by massively parallel hardware vendors including Digital Equipment Corp, Intel Corp, MasPar Corp and Thinking Machines Corp, which promises to ship High Performance Fortran compilers this year.
1993	The initiative's primary goal was to provide greater Fortran functionality in massively parallel computing, especially in the fields of data parallel programming; the provision of non-uniform memory access calls on parallel ; and common code tuning application programming interfaces for different architectures.
1993	ONSITE OF MUNICH OFFERS ONSITE SVR4.2 UNIX FOR iAPX-86 IN GERMANY
1993	Unix software developer Onsite International GmbH, Munich, Germany, has introduced Onsite SVR4.2, an implementation of Unix Systems Laboratories Inc's Unix System V.4.2 Destiny desktop operating system for Intel Corp iAPX-86 architectures.
1993	Apple Inc, as reported briefly and bittily, since news of these playing away launches tends to come in in dribs and drabs, used the Cebit fair in Hannover as the occasion to launch three new Apple Workgroup Servers, along with AppleSearch, its new information access and retrieval service for Mac workgroups.
1993	RadioMail Corp, providing wireless electronic mail and information services to subscribers via portable and palmtop , pagers, personal digital assistants, and other intelligent devices equipped with a radio modem from its base in Menlo Park, California, reports that it has raised $3m in its initial round of outside private funding.
1993	Bell Microproducts Inc, San Jose, California marketer and distributor of semiconductor and products, and provider of testing kitting and turnkey manufacturing services on an OEM basis and to value-added resellers, has filed to go public with an initial offer of 1.5m shares, 1.2m of them new.
1993	ECCS Inc, Tinton Falls, New Jersey integrator of mass storage enhancement products and value-added reseller of NCR Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc networked systems, has filed to go public with an initial offer of 2.2m shares, 1.6m of them new, at a target price of $7.50 to $9.50 a share; no plans for proceeds were given.
1993	Apple Inc has reported that second quarter net profits fell 17.9% at $110.9m, on turnover that rose 15.0% at $1,973.9m; at the mid-term, net profits fell 9.6% at $272.2m on turnover 11.0% ahead at $3,578.2m.
1993	Despite a slump in the company's margins, Bear Stearns & Co. raised its investment rating of Apple Inc to ‘strong buy’ from ‘buy’following the company's fiscal second-quarter earnings report — figures, page five: analyst Andy Neff says he made the change because concern about Apple's results was overdone; commenting on the figures, Apple says it expects to resume growth — in earnings, revenue, unit sales, and market share — in the second half of its fiscal year, saying that the fall in profit was down to pricing pressures, the costs of new product launches, and a constraint in supplies needed for manufacturing, the latter two drains being short-term; he noted that despite supply constraints, second quarter unit growth was up over 70% in its Powerbook notebook , while total Macintosh unit growth was up over 385; the European market continues to be slow, but sales in Japan are leading the way for continued growth of the Apple Pacific business unit; gross margin was 38.5% of net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 1993, down from 44.0% a year ago.
1993	Reporting that Judge Vaughn Walker has entered an order establishing a hearing date on summary judgement motions for May 5 in the look-and-feel suit brought against it and Hewlett-Packard Co by Apple Inc, Microsoft Corp makes it quite clear that it is not prepared to tolerate any nonsense from anyone: the lawyer retained as its vice-president of law and corporate affairs is called William Neukom.
1993	A savage new twist to the personal price-performance ratchet is in prospect after Advanced Micro Devices Inc announced yesterday that it will plunge straight into the 80486 market with a family of devices using Intel Corp microcode rather than wait until its own ‘clean’ version of the chip is ready in June.
1993	One version of the Am586 chip will incorporate special features for portable .
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has a total installed base of 6,000 machines after eight or nine years in business.
1993	‘Using this technology, Epson aims to develop larger panels for personal or workstations in the near future,’ it said.
1993	As well as its development centre in Irvine, California, ICL has its Consoles Inc acquisition to thank for its OfficePower software, which is now into version 7.
1993	The new release comes with Windows, Open Look or Motif front-ends, client-server implementations of for popular personal packages, offers links to Microsoft Corp's Mail, Lotus Development Corp's cc:Mail and ICL's TeamOffice, X400 mail to UK MHS ‘88 standards and has a new management system.
1993	Six months on from the launch, Beaverton, Oregon-based Sequent Systems Inc claims it has won 30 customers for its ptx/Clusters high-availability clustering technology, most with several hundred users attached.
1993	The pilot of the future will fly by the flick of her Macintosh mouse — or at least she will gain access to vital information she needs by that means, following that agreement between Apple Inc and Honeywell Inc's Minneapolis-based Honeywell Air Transport Systems Division.
1993	Honeywell may have sold its business, but its continuing operations, notably the process control systems side of the business, are is never very far from the .
1993	And it now also supports Apple Inc's Data Access Manager as well as providing future compatibility and support for AppleScript.
1993	Brio's integrated family of products are designed to enable non-technical end-users to query, analyse and update corporate databases from Macintosh and Windows .
1993	Second, the commoditisation of hardware, which means that maintenance is no longer the critical service it once was — if something goes wrong with a relatively cheap personal , for example, people have the option to simply ‘bung it in the bin’ without wasting too much money.
1993	Browne cites both Granada Services Ltd and Sun Microsystems Inc as good examples of this policy.
1993	He defines customer services as hardware maintenance, including third party and multivendor maintenance; systems software and utility support; environmental services, such as the design, construction and installation of rooms; disaster recovery; operations management support services; and consultancy and training related to the above.
1993	Paris-based software and services company Generale de Service Informatique SA, or GSI, as it is better known, reported 1992 revenues up 8% to the equivalent of $460m, a rate of increase only half of that registered that year.
1993	Up to now, it has been run by the government's centre for information systems, the Central & Telecommunications Agency.
1993	Marketplace Inc, Corona, California seller and lessor of IBM , has filed with the US Securities & Exchange Commission to go public with an initial offer of up to 1.375m units at $4 each.
1993	Net proceeds will be used to buy equipment, repay debt and for working capital; underwriter is Biltmore Securities Inc.
1993	Systems & Technology Inc has reported fourth quarter net profits down 40.8% at $1m, after $180,000 tax credits this time and $638,000 last time, on turnover up 40.2% at $27.4m; net losses for the year to September 30 amounted to $2.3m against profits of $4.7m last time, after $1.7m tax credits last time, on turnover that rose 39% to $90.9m.
1993	NCR Corp, Sequent Systems Inc and Unisys Corp are all planning to see that May 17 —‘Pentium Day’— is not totally dominated by the personal end of the business: like just about every other Intel Corp customer, these companies are bursting to talk about their high-end Pentium systems, but have been forcibly gagged by Intel from doing so: NCR was luckier than most in that it got a ten minute portion of the huge Intel presentation at Cebit in Hannover last month devoted to its eight-processor Pentium monster, but with the model number carefully removed.
1993	President Clinton last week announced a plan to add a new Clipper Chip in every government phone and line to prevent eavesdropping: the chip was developed by the US National Institute for Standards and Technology, and is expected to be used by commercial and private users as well; to assure privacy, each chip containing the encryption devices would be assigned two unique keys that will be needed to decode messages; according to the New York Times, they will be fabricated by Micotronx Inc, Torrance, California and VLSI Technology Inc, San Jose, and AT&T Co says it will incorporate the chip in its secure communications product line.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is the first US major to open a wholly owned subsidiary in Romania, its seventh in the old Eastern Bloc.
1993	StorageTek contributes the front-end channel, compression and compaction technology, buffer and buffer management and is working on a new data format for helical-scan tape, which originally was designed for video.
1993	THE AWARDS SHOW THEIR WORTH AS COMPANIES COME UP TRUMPS IN THIS YEAR's LIST
1993	An above average number of companies in the , telecommunications and microelectronics sectors appear in the lists of Queen's Awards to Industry, published this morning.
1993	High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire-based Insignia Solutions Ltd was recognised for developing its widely-used SoftPC program that emulates the MS-DOS environment used on the IBM personal on incompatible Apple Inc Macintoshes, and workstations from the likes of Sun Microsystems Inc, Hewlett-Packard Co and Digital Equipment Corp; and S&S International Ltd, Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, gained an award for its Dr Solomon's Anti-Virus Toolkit, which employs fuzzy logic to combat the most complex viruses.
1993	Ashford, Middlesex-based NextBase Ltd was rewarded for its nifty multi-lingual, computerised route planning system that runs on IBM personal ; Solid State Logic Ltd, based in Begbroke, Oxfordshire received its pat on the back for its swift and compact digital audio post production system for video and film; the Integrated Display Systems division of Smiths Industries Aerospace & Defence Systems in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire gained an award for its multi-purpose colour display for high performance aircraft; and Swindon, Wiltshire-based Raychem Limited Corporate Technology Europe came good with its heat shrinkable, fabric, composite technology for sealing and protecting splice joints in telecommunications networks.
1993	Liverpool, Merseyside games company Psygnosis Ltd, which has quadrupled its exports in the last three years — and has taken Japan by storm, was another winner as was Ipswich, Suffolk-based BT & D Technologies Ltd, the joint optoelectronic manufacturing venture between British Telecommunications Plc, E I du Pont de Nemours & Co Inc of Wilmington, Delaware.
1993	You don't have to be high tech, even in a high tech industry, to bring home the bacon, and Lion Cabinets Ltd of Leeds repeated its 1991 success with yet another award for the export of its mild steel enclosures and mountings for peripherals to the US, Germany, Italy and Israel.
1993	National Semiconductor Corp claims that the isochronous Ethernet technology for multimedia communications is gathering support, and that Apple Inc has given its backing, with other manufacturers ‘reacting very favourably’ to it.
1993	Ask Systems Inc's Ingres Corp is claiming a world first for its Ingres/Enhanced Security relational database, which has picked a Information Technology Security Evaluation Criteria E3/F-B1 security rating.
1993	Chairman Louis Gerstner said that while demand was week and the company, which once dictated the terms of trade to the whole industry, suffered continued competitive pressures on its hardware products, demand in personal , workstations and service businesses remained strong.
1993	Personal up 40%
1993	IBM also said unit sales of personal were up 40% on a year-to-year basis and the IBM Personal Co was profitable in the first quarter — but does that mean simply that as a quasi-autonomous company, a load of corporate overhead has been lifted from it and dumped elsewhere?
1993	As a result, 600 systems staff from Apiron Information AB, KF's information systems company, will go to work at EDS's Swedish location, said Geoffrey Carroll, president of EDS' northern European operations.
1993	In the meantime, yesterday's contract sets up EDS as KF's partner in managing the Stockholm-based company's systems, making it more of a ‘cosourcing’ than an ‘outsourcing’contract, Carroll said.
1993	Hjoth noted that the General Motors Corp services subsidiary will not be the only computing supplier to KF.
1993	Budget personal manufacturer OCT Systems Inc of Seattle, Washington has lined up a new UK distributor, following the demise of Olympic Technology Ltd, which went into liquidation in January.
1993	Colchester, Essex-based Climate Changer & Concessionaires Ltd will be selling OCT's under the trading name Olympic , having bought the moniker from the liquidator.
1993	Olympic is offering support at preferential prices to the 18,000 Olympic Technology customers, but it will not be honouring service warranties made by the old company.
1993	Ask Systems Inc has reported a third quarter net loss of $674,000 compared with a profit last time of $2.0m, on turnover that declined 7.1% at $100.5m; the net loss for the nine months was $4.6m, down from a loss last time of $55.9m, which was struck after a $54.8m writedown of goodwill in acquisitions, on turnover up 2.7% at $297.7m.
1993	CONCURRENT TO EXPAND WORLDWIDE SALES
1993	Oceanport, New Jersey-based Concurrent Corp says it intends to expand its worldwide sales force by 10% next month: it has strengthened its industry and product marketing and professional services staffs over the past six months.
1993	APPLE OPENS OFFICE IN MEXICO
1993	Apple Inc opened a marketing and channel development office in Mexico City: a market forecast has estimated that the personal market in Mexico should grow 29% to near $1,000m this year.
1993	Oki Electric Industry Co Ltd will suspend operations at two factories in Takasaki and Tomioka, east Japan, for a total of three days in May and August because of falling capital investment by banks: for those three days, Oki will pay 90% of wages to the 3,100 employees; the Tomioka plant produces systems and equipment for financial institutions while Takasaki makes general information and communications equipment and printers.
1993	Apple Inc has already declared its interest in the chip and plans to introduce a 68060-based machine in the second quarter next year.
1993	Concurrent Corp, Oceanport, New Jersey has launched a Series 7000 Investment Protection Programme under which its customers can buy and install a new Concurrent Series 7000 system and then order the compatible upgrade to the next generation system, which will be introduced later this year.
1993	The initial pact includes client-server software from Sybase Inc and Applied Information Sciences Inc, and CA-Unicenter from Associates International Inc, all running on HP 9000 Series 800 Unix machines.
1993	Meantime the Wall Street Journal has now picked up on that story we reported last month that Apple Inc and Novell Inc are working together to build the Macintosh System 7.1 look and feel atop Novell's MS-DOS-compatible DR DOS to run on iAPX-86-based machines (CI No 2,133).
1993	A seven-employee Minneapolis-based start-up company, Radio & Telephone Corp, is developing a pocket-sized personal communicator that combines the functions of an XT, a cellular telephone, a pager and tape recorder, US PC Week reports.
1993	Where most of the planned personal communicators support pen input, Radio has eschewed this in favour of the capability to exchange messages with pagers and run MS-DOS applications.
1993	The strokes came in the form of the 303X mainframe family, announced in 1977, which hurt the residual values of 370 and 370-compatible mainframes leased by Itel…followed by the 1979 announcement of the 4300 series that destroyed the remaining hopes of lessors like Itel that had bet too heavily on the lasting value of older .
1993	But the problem is that they may not be able to deal adequately with operating systems and environments that they don't know and are not allowed to market; especially given the financial position many of them are in.
1993	Two Dutch companies, Associated Experts BV of Amsterdam and Delft-based Parallel Architecture and Compiler Technology, or PACT BV, have joined forces to produce the Expert Parallel Development System for Transputer-based applications.
1993	Expert combines the Expert Transputer compiler family from Associated with PACT's Parallel C Compiler and run-time system to provide a stand-alone, or complete, set of tools for T400, T800 and T9000 application development.
1993	The system costs around $2,200 for an MS-DOS version and $6,600 for a Unix C-based version and is available from Associated Experts, PACT and their respective distribution chains.
1993	In the meantime the company is concentrating on application software for the Apple Inc Macintosh and Microsoft Corp Windows machines which enables users to construct their own fonts.
1993	Apple Inc chief executive John Sculley has controversially entered the high-definition television debate, saying that he reckons the outlook for digital compression television is far brighter than that for high definition television, Reuter reports.
1993	The company says it believes that Macrovision may be applicable in interactive video products such as Philips' Compact Disk-Interactive, games machines and multimedia .
1993	Initially, it will be offered with Alias Animator and Alias PowerAnimator Version 4.1. for Silicon Graphics Inc workstations, RISC personal and digital media servers, including the Iris Indigo and Indigo2 Extreme.
1993	The new environment enables Alias software to integrate with Apple Inc's QuickTime; Pixar Inc's RenderMan Interface Bytestream; and Avid Technology Inc's proposed Open Media Framework Interchange standard for sharing digital media information among multiple applications and types of production and post-production equipment.
1993	Nippon Digital Equipment Corp is to go after the client-server market in Japan, using the bilingual DOS/V operating system on its personal and the VAX series of machines as servers.
1993	He has no background in the business but extensive experience in marketing and management according to DEC; he is also Japanese, in an age when US companies are increasingly moving management to Japanese executives.
1993	Matsushita Electric Industrial Co has started marketing the Panacom Pro-note V IBM-compatible notebook .
1993	The Pro-note V is the first IBM-compatible machine that Matsushita has offered on the Japanese market — until now it has manufactured and sold only personal compatible with Fujitsu Ltd's FMR series — all the leading brands run incompatible versions of Japanese MS-DOS — indicating a major change in strategy as IBM-compatible machines become more acceptable in Japan with the advent of the DOS/V bilingual operating system.
1993	The chip went on display at the Microsoft Show which opened on April 20 in Tokyo.
1993	He also said he is ‘very optimistic’ about the NCR division, where orders from Europe recently have picked up after a period of extreme softness.
1993	Sun says that its systems subsidiary, Sun Microsystems Corp, shipped more than 90,000 Sparc processors during the quarter, 57,000 of which were systems, and the balance of which were upgrades and multiprocessors.
1993	Compaq Corp's first quarter earnings were better than the highest of Wall Street estimates and some analysts said that if it were not for a negative impact from currency translations, profits would have been a bit higher still.
1993	Compaq said demand is very high for its new generation of personal , launched in March, and the new generation of ProLinea and the Contura notebook line are backlogged with resellers.
1993	Compaq Corp has reported that first quarter net profit soared 125.8% at $102.4m, on turnover more than doubled, up 105.7% at $1,611m; net earnings per share leaped by 132% to $1.23.
1993	Despite the improvement from IBM's personal business, overall profits were weak in the company's hardware operations: the gross profit margin on hardware sales for the first quarter was a dismal 29%, compared with 48% a year ago (a decline of 19% has been bandied about, but that came from someone that doesn't understand percentages — it's a fall of 19 percentage points or 39.6%); the overall gross margin was 39.5% in the first quarter, down from 50.8% a year ago; IBM's tax rate was 25% in the first quarter, below the 45% rate IBM had indicated earlier; IBM told analysts to continue to expect the 45% rate for the rest of this year.
1993	Commenting on its reduced second quarter loss (figures, page seven), Data General Corp said that while it wasn't satisfied with its overall results, it was encouraged by the continued success of its AViiON family of Unix , which showed significant growth over the year-ago quarter, and it remains cautious for the short-term because of the weak worldwide economy and because it sees no evidence that industry-wide pricing pressures will abate in the near future; the Westboro company is able to shrug off the small but steady and grinding losses because it still had $196.2m in cash and marketable securities at the end of the quarter.
1993	Pace the unjustified slur, naming 10 famous Belgians is easy, even if the Singing Nun, the Mannekin Pis and Hercule Poirot are declared ineligible (and Jacques Brel counts five of most other countries' famous people in our book)— and there could just be another one soon, in the person of Finance Minister Philippe Maystadt, who could become the father of a whole new economics after his proposal that Belgium levy a robot tax on factory machines to get humans back to work: it's a great idea, and why not take it further and ban construction machinery from the roads to get the shovels back into navvies' hands — and no doubt can be included under the tax, so that in no time, in a dramatic return to Victorian values, while the Belgian economy may not actually start booming, the country will have the world's biggest quill pen industry.
1993	Software Transformation's technology provides a framework of software programming tools that is claimed to transcend differences in graphical user interfaces and varied operating system characteristics such as memory allocation and file systems so that applications need be developed only once to run on a variety of systems — currently Apple Inc's Macintosh, Microsoft Corp's Windows, Novell and Univel Inc's UnixWare and Unixes from Digital Equipment Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co and Sun Microsystems Inc, with versions for OS/2, AIX and NT on the way.
1993	The part is currently being evaluated by Advanced Communications Corp, Alcatel NV, Bell Northern Research Europe, L M Ericsson Telefon AB, France Telecom, Motorola itself, Philips Electronics NV and Tekelec Inc.
1993	Its workstation figures do include sales of server systems, but only servers that are dedicated to workstation environments, plus tools and utilities software such as operating systems, compilers, software engineering tools and graphics libraries, certain peripherals — such as personal co-processor boards and laser printers — service, maintenance, custom consulting and systems integration fees.
1993	Systems that do not meet the IDC workstation criteria include the Compaq Corp Deskpro, IBM's PS/2 — whether running MS-DOS, OS/2 or AIX — and Apple Inc's Macintosh II whether running MacOS or A/UX.
1993	Those are considered to be high-end personal and single-user systems.
1993	The system connects to any MS-DOS personal or Sun Microsystems Inc workstation via an Sbus or VMEbus.
1993	In an unfortunate sign of a shortage of cash in both the industry and museum world, however, it was unclear how much further the prototype system would evolve and whether the money could be found ultimately to deploy it in the museum.
1993	Founder and managing director Simon Goodfellow — a refugee from Solbourne Inc's UK operation — thinks Sparc International was unnecessarily aggressive in the way it handled the use of the Sparc trademark, given that its mission is to encourage the development of a Sparc marketplace.
1993	The combined package with the basic function of Photoshop Version 2.5, enables users to input and edit images with their .
1993	The drive uses European Manufacturing Association media standards, which increase capacity through zone-bit recording techniques, increased linear recording density and decreased track spacing.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co also announced for the reseller market a new HP Optical Jukebox Storage Solution optical-disk library storage system designed to extend hard disk storage on a personal network server running Novell Inc NetWare by up to 10.4Gb.
1993	GRANADA SERVICES REORGANSISES TO BUILD ON ITS STRENGTHS IN NEW PUSH FOR EXPANSION
1993	Granada Group Plc's third party maintenance provider, Granada Services, believes its new React Centre and reorganised customer services operation will enable it to take the big manufacturers head on.
1993	Moreover, international operations director Richard Ferry claims that the Bracknell, Berkshire-based company's services are unique — although most rivals can offer centralised expertise, he says, no-one else can monitor systems remotely, or keep an eye on such critical issues as temperature and air conditioning levels at any given customer site.
1993	Long a problem child, Granada Services is now thriving and as of April 15, it restructured its customer support functions into two separate divisions with the aim of providing a more focussed and efficient service: enterprise support looks after IBM Corp, Digital Equipment Corp and ICL Plc mainframes; and distributed systems support tends to networked personal and workstations.
1993	These monitor and diagnose any problems occurring in a particular system, drops in temperature and changes in air conditioning levels.
1993	The detection boxes mentioned above are also linked to a stand-alone personal , loaded with with Granada's own Fixed Site Management System software.
1993	So, Granada Services now comprises four divisions in total, including the two mentioned above.
1993	Looking at the sector alone, the market was down 15% and production down 7%.
1993	Tandem Inc has reported second quarter net profits up 26.0% at $11.1m on turnover that rose 3.4% to $425.1m; the mid-term net profit was $51.1m after a gain of $22.5m from cumulative effect of an accounting change, against a loss last time of $85.8m, on turnover that rose 4.3% at $814.2m.
1993	Looks as if the message that an army of outsiders is needed to turn IBM Corp's disparate businesses around is beginning to get through: yesterday the Personal Software Products division announced that it had recalled William Rich to be general manager, worldwide sales and marketing — he had left the company but had been acting as a consultant to it; it has also tapped David Proctor as vice-president of products — Proctor is formerly president of Xerox Services and had been president and chief executive of Ashton-Tate Corp; before he took that position, he had served 23 years with IBM.
1993	Until then, the limited supplies of Pentium the company can muster will be going to Intel's best customers worldwide, a short list that is believed to include AST Research Inc, Compaq Corp, Dell Corp and NCR Corp.
1993	IBM Corp and Sequent Systems Inc are possibly on it too — Siemens AG is is helping with the chip so Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG so may also be in the line-up.
1993	DEC's massively parallel activities have been moved from corporate research to its mainstream operations and clustering, as in its recent agreement with Encore Corp, is the current DEC watchword.
1993	The 601s that Motorola intends shipping in high volume in the third quarter will be fabricated by IBM Corp under the tie-up with Motorola and Apple Inc.
1993	These things always come along as a bit of an afterthought because they are never going to make as much money as the workstation version, but Hewlett-Packard Co has now introduced its most powerful VMEbus board-level yet, and calls it the HP 9000 Model 742i.
1993	The new is based on the 50MHz PA-7100 version of the Precision Architecture RISC, rated at 61 MIPS, and joins the company's family of industrial .
1993	It fits into two 6U VMEbus slots, enabling the Model 742i to outperform multiboard , which typically have more intensive development and support requirements, the company claims.
1993	The whole of Havant's operation has been spun off as a separate business, so Wilkie has to find outside customers for the plant's mix of personal and mid-range disk drives; integrated disk subsystems and ‘flexible circuitry’ expertise (those plastic straps bearing solder tracks found when opening up a personal or disk drive).
1993	IBM JAPAN ‘HAS PROTOTYPE POWERPC PEN ’
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has reported first quarter net profits 253% at $3.4m on turnover up 15.2% at $61.6m; net per share rose 300% to $0.12.
1993	Westinghouse Electric Corp, Pittsburgh has asked 15 cellular and wireless companies for proposals to build a nationwide wireless data network, the Wall Street Journal reported: the company's idea is to spur the wireless carriers, individually or as part of a consortium, to develop a network that would make it easier and cheaper for users of laptop and palm-top and other devices to send and receive information over the air — and in return, Westinghouse promised to buy a substantial amount of transmission capacity for turn-key communications services that it wants to offer over such a network for various types of companies, such as those that manage large fleets of vehicles and security concerns doing remote monitoring —‘We're trying to get a national packet data network that covers, at a minimum, the 30 largest metropolitan areas,’ the company declared.
1993	Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Encore Corp says that it will supply its Infinity 90 machine as part of the $362m five-year contract awarded to BDM Federal Inc by the US Air Force as part of the cost-cutting Defense Management Report Decision 924 programme, which mandates the consolidation of the Air Force Material Command unit's mainframe systems and sites.
1993	Bell Atlantic Corp's Bell Atlantic Business Systems International has formed a partnership with Fujitsu Australia Ltd to provide independent service and support for companies' enterprises in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Fiji: each company will own a half interest in a partnership that owns ACL Services and will conduct business under the name of FBA Technology Services, providing hardware, software, network and usage support on mainframe to desktop systems from multiple vendors; Fujitsu Australia is now 80% owned by Fujitsu Ltd and 20% by ICL Plc.
1993	NCR Corp has formed two new groups that will work jointly to develop telecommunications specific business systems for providers of telecommunications services worldwide: Telecom Solutions & Integration is a development and production organisation in NCR's Midrange Products Division and will be based in Naperville, Illinois, integrating NCR's Open, Co-operative Computing Architecture with specific telecommunications attributes; and Worldwide Communications Industry Marketing will focus on enhancing NCR's understanding of customers and the communications industry.
1993	Birmingham University in the UK West Midlands has started Phase Three of its network expansion: it has ordered 20 ECS Hubs, 300 adaptor boards and a Network Integration Centre from 3Com Corp, together worth £115,000; by the end of Phase Three, it will have around 2,500 connection points to the FDDI network installed for staff and post-graduate students.
1993	New York-based RAM Mobile Data Inc and Mobile Data Turnkey Solutions have teamed up to offer Dispatcher, a Windows-based fleet despatch application for use on RAM's mobile data network: the system consists of personal software and Millidyne STX 4000 mobile data terminals which are mounted in each driver's vehicle; drivers can use the system to report position and status, while controllers can see status reports; all message transactions are recorded, and there is also a message store capability.
1993	The IBM Personal Co has formed a team under an executive hired last month from NEC Technologies executive to launch the cheapo Ambras in the US, US PC Week says.
1993	Paris-based Advanced Research International SA, Jacques Stern's new company that also has a base in Lyon and is designing a massively parallel processor around Digital Equipment Corp's Alpha RISC (CI No 2,101), yesterday announced an agreement with Cray Research Inc to develop Fortran 90 compilers and applications for use on parallel systems.
1993	Under the agreement, ACSET, which develops compilers for Advanced in Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, will use Cray's advanced Fortran 90 front-end technology to create and market standard, fully Cray-compatible compilers for Advanced and, eventually, other European manufacturers.
1993	Advanced Research — ACRI — and Cray will also collaborate to convert and optimise applications codes on both companies' parallel systems — Cray is also designing parallel machines around the Alpha RISC.
1993	Advanced was founded in 1989 by Jacques Stern, founder of Sesa SA and former chief executive of Compagnie des Machines Bull SA, to develop a new generation of European high-performance systems for the scientific, technical and engineering markets.
1993	Advanced says its Alpha machines are not due on the market before the end of 1995.
1993	The company holds a minority interest and helped found ACSET to develop and market compilers and other software engineering tools for parallel .
1993	Although object technology is ‘a major technical change to the system,’ Bourne says that SunSoft's approach is very different from other efforts such as the IBM-Apple Inc Taligent venture or Microsoft Corp's Cairo because they are looking to reusability and faster time to market for applications as an end result.
1993	Initially, SynOptics is converting its Optivity network management system and LattisWare Solutions applications for IBM's NetView/6000 network management system for IBM RS/6000 .
1993	According to a Dataquest Japan survey, Apple Inc was the only personal maker in Japan to increase its shipments in 1992 — increasing by 45.8% to 185,000 units and jumping up the market share league table to third place from sixth last year, taking 8.3% of the market, writes Anita Byrnes.
1993	The market share of NEC Corp, Japan's top personal maker, still managed to grow, albeit by only 0.6% to 53.4%.
1993	Total shipments of personal declined 5.8% to 2.23m units.
1993	In surveys of the retail outlets in Akihabara, a well-known electronics outlet area in Tokyo, the Macintosh LCIII and the Mac Colour Classic ranked in the top 10 most popular for sales in February, coming in at numbers six and nine respectively.
1993	With the US and European price war now boiling up in Japan, the picture for 1993 promises to alter significantly — and the availability of much cheaper personal is seen as a major opportunity for US software vendors.
1993	The potential is underlined by the fact that the US market, with just twice the population of Japan, absorbed about 10m personal last year, against the modest 2.2m sold in Japan — although the comparison is distorted by the fact that the dedicated word processor is still a major force in the Japanese market, and 2.24m Japanese-language word processors produced in 1992 according to the Electronics Industry Association of Japan, which means that combined sales for word processors and personal are much closer to parity with the US market.
1993	Makoto Naruke, president of Microsoft Corp's Japanese subsidiary, told Reuter that he believes overall Japanese personal sales will increase 30% this year — and on the back of this, he expects Microsoft's sales in Japan — just $108m in the year to June 31, 1992 — to rise to $136m in the year that ends this June.
1993	Likely beneficiaries of a boom in personal sales include Lotus Development Corp, Microsoft and Borland International Inc, which together account for 90% of Japan's spreadsheet market.
1993	A further revolution that has not yet taken hold widely in Japan is that of networking personal and word processors, and one American working for a large Japanese company in Tokyo complained to Reuter of hours spent every day hunting down paper documents written on dedicated word processors and then stuffing them laboriously into facsimile machines — when an efficient personal network could save all the effort.
1993	Following its announcement earlier this year of a version of its FM-Towns multimedia personal aimed at the fireside market for connection to the family television, Fujitsu Ltd has established an in-house Multimedia Project Promotion division, drawing in researchers from its Research Laboratory as well as staff from its systems and sales divisions: Fujitsu cites figures from Dataquest forecasting growth in the world's multimedia market at an average of 31.6% annually over the next four years and says it is ready to exploit its strengths in multimedia base technologies such as its Subaru graphics system and signal processing chips for high definition television, as well as user interfaces based on virtual reality, in the development of multimedia point-of-sale systems, software and automatic teller machines.
1993	Parsys Ltd has at last been able to follow up the statements of intent it issued over a year ago with the formal announcement of its Inmos Ltd T9000 Transputer-based SN9000 series parallel .
1993	All can be hosted by a personal or Sun Microsystems Inc workstation.
1993	These include the Volvox-TW-9000 ‘ready to start’ ; the Volvox-devT9000 toolbox for embedded systems; and three boards — the Volvox-1/SF-900 SBus board, Volvox-1/CTR-900 and Volvox-1/V-900 Master/Slave VME T9000.
1993	OLIVETTI LOOKS TO BUBBLEJET PRINTER, NEW PERSONAL TO FUEL ITS RECOVERY
1993	As reported, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA is extending its printer offerings with its natty wedge-shaped JP 250 bubble jet and is revamping its high end personal offerings with the M6 Suprema line (CI No 2,136).
1993	The new range is aimed at professional users running demanding multimedia applications or requiring other ‘value added’ extras like security and ergonomic features.
1993	It is hoped that the new releases will continue the minor upturn in personal sales seen during the fourth quarter after the release of the PCS and M300.
1993	Trying to out-do the star-studded cast it assembled for last year's Object World San Francisco, the Object Management Group has come up with Steve Jobs, NeXT Inc chief executive; Lee Reiswig, IBM Corp Personal Software Division president; John Edwards, Novell Inc executive vice president; Bud Tribble, NeXT co-founder and SunSoft Inc vice president User Systems; Representative Edward Markey, chairman, the US House Telecommunication & Finance Committee; Bo Hedfors, L M Ericsson Telefon AB chief technology officer; Kurt Fischer, Pentagon director, Department of Defense Information and Elaine Bond, Chase Manhattan Bank vice-president.
1993	Stratus Inc has reported first quarter net profit down 22.4% at $8.8m on turnover up 4.1% at $114.6m.
1993	Corrected Result: Sequent Systems Inc has reported that its first quarter net profits jumped 253% at $3.4m on turnover 20.4% ahead at $77.6m.
1993	Westfields, Virginia-based Genicom Corp reports that Dell Corp has chosen it to be Dell's preferred printer provider: financial terms were not released, but Genicom said the partnership is expected to be a multimillion dollar opportunity for both companies.
1993	CHINESE EXECUTE ACCOUNTANT FOR FRAUD
1993	Chinese authorities have executed a bank accountant who embezzled more than $175,000 in the country's first such case of fraud, the Xinhua Daily Telegraph newspaper reported yesterday: Shi Biao, who worked for the Jilin branch of the state-run Agricultural Bank of China, was found to have siphoned funds to private accounts from August to November 1991, and he and accomplice Yu Lixin were arrested as they were preparing to leave China through the southern economic zone of Shenzhen, bordering Hong Kong; it was the first case of bank embezzlement via in China; China imposes the death penalty for a variety of offences, ranging from bicycle theft to panda poaching.
1993	Convex Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co yesterday said that they are hotting up the alliance that saw Hewlett take a 5% stake in Convex last year with a potentially substantial technology exchange to plug the massively parallel applications gap.
1993	Two diversified US software distribution, services and systems integration companies, Caci International Inc, Arlington, Virginia and Comarco Inc, Anaheim, California are joining forces.
1993	HITACHI HAS NEURAL
1993	Hitachi Ltd has a new neural which it claims has the world's fastest learning ability.
1993	The , which it developed with Hitachi Microcomputer System Ltd, is $135,000.
1993	The shadowy collaboration between Apple Inc and Novell Inc to put the Macintosh Finder user interface and Toolbox applications development aids atop Novell's DR DOS clone of Microsoft Corp's MS-DOS and network client software to give the poor relations in the graphical user interface stakes, the iAPX-86 personal users, some of the joys of the Macintosh, has now been pinned down pretty firmly by MacWeek, and it appears that the resulting product will be marketed by Novell.
1993	iXOS, founded in 1988 by Hans Strach Zimmerman, formerly with Siemens AG, and Eberhard Faerber, founder of Peripherie Systeme GmbH, is a privately-held company that has been growing at a rate of 50% per year, and employs 110 staff.
1993	He differentiates this from outsourcing, which he says covers a much broader spectrum — it does not just involve looking after hardware and software, but includes other non-computer-related services too.
1993	Although Browne says that the bulk of suppliers follow market leaders, Hoskyns Plc, AT&T Istel, and Electronic Data Systems Corp, he believes that unless they concentrate on niche markets or certain technology sectors, such as personal and distributed systems, they face high risks and low margins.
1993	A supplier of accounting software and related products for personal , Sage saw pre-tax profits up 24% to £5.4m, while turnover rose 44.8% to £21m.
1993	Whereas the Sage arm sells its products to Sovereign customers and there are few opportunities for expansion, he stated, YBF is a forms management business that services blue-chip customers, such as Midland Bank and Nissan.
1993	Convex Corp saw first quarter net profits crash 88.6% to $46,000 on sales up 8.5% to $59.1m.
1993	Parallan Inc saw first quarter net profit up 212% at $2.8m after a gain of $1.8m from an accounting change, on turnover that soared 1,284% at $6.4m; net earnings per share fell 16% at $0.20.
1993	We looked in vain in Siemens AG's first half report on Monday for any mention of its Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG subsidiary, and with all the dreadful economic news coming out of Germany, it began to assume the air of the dog that didn't bark: Siemens said of its overall business that it did not show any revival in the first half, and that continued economic decline affected domestic business and led to a decline in incoming orders, and there was no recovery in its foreign business; laying it on with a trowel, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's leading economic advisor was quoted on Tuesday as saying that German workers failed to recognise the danger of high wages in a time of recession, and that German products were too expensive for world markets as wage increases outpaced growth in productivity, and earlier, Siemens Nixdorf had had to rebut a magazine report that its losses would be even worse this year, saying that it was certain that its results would improve this fiscal year; the article, in Manager Magazin, also said that Siemens was looking for a replacement for Siemens Nixdorf management board chairman Hans-Dieter Wiedig, and added that plans to reduce the workforce to 41,000 by 1995 from 47,200 at the end of February could well be accelerated.
1993	Shipments by the Japanese personal industry fell again in the year to March 31, extending the then unprecedented decline of the previous year: total personal and peripheral shipments fell 10% in value to $9,540m, the Japan Electronic Industries Development Association said; the previous fiscal, sales fell 7%; domestic ships fell 13% to $7,065m, but exports were less hit, falling 1% to $2,448m; exports of notebook grew particularly well.
1993	PARALLAN EXPECTS FALL IN SHIPMENTS
1993	Mountain View, California-based Parallan Inc says it expects its shipments of manufactured products to IBM Corp to fall, because it expects IBM to assume manufacturing responsibilities for the PS/2 Server 295 this year — the jump in its first quarter sales (see page five) was primarily down to increased ships to IBM, it said.
1993	Compaq Corp says it shipped more 80486SL-based Compaq Conturas in the first month of the product's availability than any other portable in Compaq's history.
1993	SHERWOOD SERVICES TAKES ON PREMIER SYSTEMS STAFF
1993	Sherwood Services Plc has taken on 34 key staff previously employed by Premier Systems (London) Plc, which has ceased trading; finance director Charles Taylor said Sherwood had known the Oracle house quite well before trouble hit, and would gaining expertise in open systems development, support and consultancy; Premier specialised in systems for large City investment and financial customers; the staff will be completely integrated into Sherwood's London headquarters, forming a separate unit within it, and their skills will complement the September 1992 acquisition of Consort Data Ltd (CI No 2,017); Leicester-based Consort does back office systems for smaller than average regional brokers, so Sherwood can now look after both ends of the market; it is keen to win over Premier's former customer base, and expects to sign a number of new contracts shortly; the group is looking at buying Premier's assets when a liquidator is appointed.
1993	Taligent Inc, the Apple Inc-IBM Corp venture devoted to building an object-oriented operating environment, is aiming to provide chunks of its technology for inclusion in other companies' systems.
1993	It is being backed by 12 majors, including British Telecommunications Plc, Tandem Inc, RAM Mobile Data Inc, and General Magic Corp.
1993	OpenVision, a new Pleasanton, California company headed by Michael Fields, former president of Oracle USA, launched its first product, claiming that it represents the industry's most advanced approach moving vital corporate-wide applications from mainframe to client-server networks by providing mainframe-like systems management capabilities for large geographically dispersed networks of different .
1993	‘I could do it if I wanted to, but I don't want to,’ he told a gathering of the Journalists Club in Paris yesterday, as he held court on a range of topics, from the US government and economy, to the increasing pervasiveness of personal technology.
1993	In his own comments, Gates described the double-edged growth of personal technology: the ‘accelerating’ movement of shared personal networks into the heart of a corporation's business and, at the same time, its adoption by the consumer electronics industry.
1993	With the newly emerging client-server applications, Gates said, the role of personal technology in corporate computing is growing.
1993	At the same time that personal technology is moving to centre stage for corporate applications, ‘it is moving down into what you might call the intelligent television, where you can select any type of movie to see, or shop, or interact with information,’ Gates said.
1993	By moving in these two directions, personal technology will have a lot more impact in the years to come,’ he concluded.
1993	In the area of consumer use of personal technology, Microsoft is working with Compaq Corp to develop a personal digital assistant, with cable television equipment supplier General Instrument Corp, and with ‘Thomson, Philips and Japanese consumer electronics companies to see how personal intelligence can come together with consumer devices,’ he said.
1993	For example, if you take what we're doing with CD ROM software or in the consumer areas, other []companies aren't very involved yet.
1993	He explained that a lot of Microsoft's previous growth in Europe was attributable to ‘penetrating new markets, including the UK, where our market share was not as high, and markets like Spain and Italy where piracy was being reduced, increasing the amount of software being sold per personal .’
1993	The 601s Motorola intends shipping in high volume beginning in the third quarter are being made by IBM Corp, Motorola's partner along with Apple Inc in the PowerPC push.
1993	The latter support local networks, terminals, PABXs, video links and wide area networks in an integrated system, enabling users to implement transparent multi-protocol networks cost-effectively.
1993	To create an electronic newspaper, all you need is a desktop personal that you can use as a server.
1993	Simply plug the aerial into the board at the back of your .
1993	The board picks up the signal, and translates it into digital data, which is then stored as a data file on the 's hard disk.
1993	Then, take an IBM Corp Thinkpad 700C portable and download the information stored on the desktop to it.
1993	Also its high resolution colour display means that the reader can use graphics to enhance articles or illustrations within the publication.
1993	Kruger favours pen-based machines because he says they make life easier for the user — all he needs to do is ring the bit of text he wants to file away for future reference, and his will store it away on hard disk.
1993	Also the battery life of portable is not yet long enough for consumer use, the memory is not adequate, and it is not yet possible to replace disk drives with removable solid state memory.
1993	The £6,000 desktop system is suitable for any stereo-ready workstation, Apple Inc Macintosh, personal or monitor.
1993	The system is said to be particularly useful for industrial and scientific applications like molecular modelling, animation, robotics control.
1993	Although users are encouraged to finance themselves via banks and sponsorship from private enterprise, the Centre will provide some personal hardware and even software development tools if necessary.
1993	Furthermore, according to the Centre's marketing officer, Ken Forrest, there is no shortage of skilled personnel in the region — not only are there are more graduates per head in Scotland than in any other region of the UK, but 20% of all UK science graduates are Scottish.
1993	Task Group Inc has reported first quarter net profit down 39.8% at $1m, on turnover that rose 3.1% to $77.9m.
1993	Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG limped in with its first half figures two days after its parent reported, complaining that falling prices would lead to a a fall in turnover of around $635m — that's one billion marks — in the business year to September 30: the company belatedly responded to Reuter's inquiries after the announcement of the parent's figures by saying that Nixdorf first half sales fell 9% to $3,555m and that orders fell 5% to $3,620m; it would not forecast the group's earnings but pointed to earlier company predictions of a slight improvement this year last year's $326m loss.
1993	Only a day after reporting the second year of falling personal sales (CI No 2,157), the Japan Electronic Industry Development Association says that Japanese manufacturers' shipments of personal jumped 6.2% in unit terms during the January to March quarter from a year earlier, and the rise in combined exports and domestic sales to 688,000 units from 648,000 units in the year-earlier quarter marked the first quarterly rise in two years; exports rocketed 31% to 144,000 units but domestic shipments only inched up 1.1% to 544,000 units, but was still the first quarterly increase in two-and-a-half years; because of the price wars, combined export and domestic shipments of made-in-Japan micros — when measured in currency terms, fell 8.3% — exports and home sales each off 8%.
1993	The need to separate the functions of chairman and chief executive has been a raging debate in City of London parlours for the past couple or years, and companies at which the two roles are combined in one person have been under enormous pressure to accept a separation of powers: now the same debate could take off across the Atlantic as Compaq Corp's (non-executive) chairman Ben Rosen tells the House Telecommunications and Finance Subcommittee that the troubles that have beset some of America's largest companies can be traced to cozy relationships between their boards and their chief executives — he declares that the boards of most US companies are chaired by the company's chief executive, who picks the board members and controls the agenda —‘With an appropriate form of corporate governance, I fully believe that the current problems of IBM, Digital Equipment, Westinghouse and other major American corporations could have been addressed and probably solved far earlier with much reduced ill effects,’ Rosen told the legislators, adding that a company's chairman should be a ‘truly outside independent director,’not the chief executive or a former chief executive, and that all board members, with the exception of the chief executive, should also be outsiders, who should get their directors' fees in the form of shares or options.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc will launch its K2 series of multiprocessor Microsoft Corp Windows NT systems co-designed with Tricord Systems Inc on May 3 in the US — May 4 in the UK (UX No 420): Tricord has already launched the things as its 5000 series in the US running a variety of operating systems — though Sequent has an exclusive deal on NT versions; as well as the low-end K2 boxes, Sequent will also be launching a series of high-end, Pentium-ready systems also said to be NT-capable.
1993	Concurrent Corp says it has signed up Cranfield Data Systems Ltd here and Istar SA in France to to market complete systems for the dynamic analysis and vibration control sectors of the Measurement and Control market: the alliance will provide a portfolio of Open Dynamic Analysis Solutions running on Concurrent's real-time computing systems and related services in application areas such as Rotating Machinery Analysis, Modal Analysis, Acoustics Analysis, and Vibration Control, using the Concurrent Series 7000 real-time Unix systems.
1993	Removable mass storage manufacturer Iomega Corp has launched three new additions to its floptical drive family: the first is a 21Mb parallel port floptical drive for customers that want to use parallel ports to connect their boxes to laptop, notebook and desktop personal ; data transfer is 1.6Mbits per second and the drive costs £530; the other two are 21Mb SCSI internal and external floptical drives for personal ; these are aimed at users with AT, EISA and Micro Channel systems and both work with standard SCSI adaptors, such as Future Domain Inc's TMC 850F and Adaptec Inc's 1522FS; data transfer is again 1.6Mbits per second; the internal drive costs £360 and the external drive £400.
1993	Confused between Cray Research Inc and Cray Corp?
1993	It's simple — you just have to remember that Cray Research makes and Cray does research…
1993	All this week the great and the good of the and microelectronics industries — or many of them — have been in San Francisco at the annual Hambrecht & Quist industry conference.
1993	Apple Inc and Novell Inc have successfully completed their project to bring the Macintosh system to mainstream computing, but no decision has yet been made on a commercial follow-up, Novell chief financial officer James Tolonen told the Hambrecht & Quist conference.
1993	Because of the raging personal price war, the European market started to expand strongly in 1992 and now the Japanese market, despite its general economic sluggishness, is also expanding.
1993	Apple Inc should post earnings and revenue growth in the second half of the year due to strong demand, chief financial officer Joseph Graziano told the conference.
1993	The Performa line for the consumer market is selling strongly, and it is now in 2,300 retail outlets, up from 1,300 last October — and over 90% of the Performa are being used in the home, he added.
1993	The company is launching a hard-hitting advertising campaign to promote its PowerBook line of portable , Graziano said.
1993	We're not going to have to wait much longer to learn which country and town have won AST Research Inc's long-promised European personal plant.
1993	While some high tech executives have forecast a drop in personal demand, Edwards said the industry's top tier companies will continue to do well.
1993	AST is third in US market share among portable makers, Edwards said, and overall unit growth was up about 65% in the first nine months of the current fiscal.
1993	In the name of multiprocessing on the desktop, the company's new buzzword, Sun Microsystems Corp last week went ahead as expected and unveiled its latest Sparcstation 10s (CI No 2,151).
1993	Broadview defined information technology companies as those organisations deriving at least 50% of their revenues from and/or telecommunications hardware, software and services, excluding those with under £1m turnover.
1993	Another 79 were classified as hardware companies, spread across the following areas: application hardware manufacture; communications — production of networking and transmission equipment; components manufacturers; vendors; hardware, software and value added distributors; peripherals manufacturers.
1993	Of these, the Communications hardware and segments were not considered to have comprised enough companies to justify.
1993	Encore Corp, Fort Lauderdale, Florida has persuaded the Gould Inc subsidiary of Nikko Kyodo Co Inc — which wanted to be shot of Encore altogether when it bought Gould, but has had to keep the company in the fold and bankroll it to have a chance of realising any value from it — to increase its revolving credit facility by $20m; the pact also extends the maturity dates of Encore's $50m term loan agreement to April 2 1995, and the $35m increased revolving credit pact to July 3 1994.
1993	Horizons Corp saw first quarter net profit up 10.9% at $858,000, on sales up 21.1% to $29.4m.
1993	Concurrent Corp saw third quarter net profit up 15.2% at $1.0m on sales up 2.2% at $56.1m; net for the nine months was $2.7m, down from $60.1m, but last year's figure was after a $61.1m gain on early repayment of debt, on sales off 3.1% at $164.8m.
1993	Presenting the final 1992 results (figures, page seven), Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA said that sales in lire terms rose 5.5% in the first three months of 1993 from a year earlier, but they didn't give any absolute revenue figures; in terms of volume, Olivetti said personal sales in Europe jumped 72% in the first quarter from a year earlier, printer sales rose 42%; the firm will break even at the operating level this year but will not return to profit until 1994, chairman Carlo De Benedetti said.
1993	In a significant departure for P&P Plc, the company is to market Northern Telecom Ltd's Visit multimedia communications system, which combines telephone and personal : Visit, Visual Interaction Technology, will start at under £3,000 for camera and boards, including training, maintenance and support; compatible with Mac and MS-DOS machines, Visit has an attached video camera to enable videoconferencing freely and cheaply.
1993	Concurrent Corp says it is continuing to work with its financial advisers on a series of initiatives to strengthen further its capital structure, improve profitability and provide financial flexibility, but only if it does not dilute shareholders' interests in the company, which reported better than expected third quarter figures — in Company Results, page seven.
1993	Apple Inc has persuaded Brazilian manufacturer Dismac Industrial SA, Sao Paulo to hand over the Apple brand name, which it registered in 1979: Apple says ‘We reached a friendly agreement under which the Dismac Group will grant, with no cost incurred for Apple , its registered Apple brand name; we are pleased with this gesture — Brazil is a promising market and Apple is interested in fixing its image’ there.
1993	Santa Ana, California-based California Software Products International Inc has announced the RPG400 debugger which is included in the new version 3 of its Baby/4XX Report Program Generator for AS/400s and personal : the debugger has been designed to improve applications development based on the Baby/4XX system, which enables stand-alone personal to emulate the AS/400; the debugger is free to current users — version 1.3 of the Baby/4XX system is £2,500.
1993	Texas Instruments Inc has won what it wants from Hyundai Electronics Industries Co Ltd, and the South Korean company will pay royalties to use Texas Instruments semiconductor and personal system patents under a cross-licensing agreement between the two companies: Texas said the portion of the agreement covering the semiconductor patent is for 10 years, and the personal part is for five.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co is today scheduled to unveil a faster version of its hot HP95LX handheld , which will include first fruits of the company's collaboration with Lotus Development Corp on software for mobile .
1993	So it hired a US market research company, G2 Research Inc, which specialises in systems integration and services, to question information technology directors, plus a mix of other directors and end-users, at 77 wholesale finance organisations in Europe, the US and Canada.
1993	This, according to Customer Systems manager of finance sector marketing Bernard Uzzell, leads to pressure being placed on departments at a business level as they try to co-ordinate strategies on a limited budget.
1993	Third, as the financial market becomes increasingly global and competition grows, financial institutions are finding that they need to network their resources more and more — whether that be data, staff, or hardware — both company-wide, country-wide and across different time zones.
1993	Nonetheless, approximately 40% of those questioned still have separate and telecommunications departments, although Pflug does predict that these two functions will converge rapidly over the next three to five years.
1993	In Uzzell's opinion, ‘companies now want their investment in and telecommunications to relate to business volumes’ as a way of ensuring that they get value for money.
1993	The PenTel capitalises on the pen interface by enabling users to send sketches and data to fax machines, other PenTels, network servers or personal , but, just as importantly, it avoids the mass of incomprehensible keys that currently bedevil multifunction phones.
1993	OPUS HAS NEW SINGLE BOARD SPARC FOR MS-DOS MACHINES
1993	Fremont, California-based Opus Systems Inc, which has been undergoing the trauma of prepackaged Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings — a sort of jail sojourn where the keys are left in the door — has announced the SparCard 2+, its next generation Unix single board for plugging into personal , offering 25% performance improvement over its predecessor, the SparCard 2.
1993	The 50MHz SparCard 2+ single board delivers 35.6 MIPS and is designed for personal builders and systems integrators needing additional processing power for their embedded Unix systems.
1993	Other products include the Powerfusion system for integrating personal running MS-DOS or Windows with Unix hosts, Powerfusion for Workgroups (which enables IBM Corp's RS/6000s to be integrated into a workgroup), the PowerSave high speed tape back-up facility for Banyan Systems Inc, Novell Inc and PowerLan networks, and PowerBridge for linking two or more PowerLan networks together.
1993	The independent supplier of turnkey manufacturing services for circuit board assemblies, subsystems and systems to major OEM customers in the personal and workstation, disk drive and other peripherals, communications and automotive industries.
1993	General Motors Corp may need to sell a stake in Electronic Data Systems Corp in order to overcome a $14,000m worldwide pension obligation, industry analysts told Reuter: chief financial officer Richard Wagoner said the automaker plans to make a ‘significant contribution’ into its pension fund this year and next year, and over the next six or seven years, hopes to eliminate its pension fund liability completely; analysts say it could raise almost $5,000m by selling a 25% stake in the services giant, and Lehman Brothers automotive analyst Joseph Phillippi said he expects it either to sell a stake or return to the equity markets; officials from both the General and British Telecommunications Plc say that any deal for the UK phone giant to buy a stake in EDS is far from certain.
1993	IBM Corp will launch two new Thinkpad laptops within the next couple of weeks according to documents seen by Computerworld: the paper says the new ThinkPad 720 and 720C machines will be based on the current Model 700s with faster 25/50MHz 486SLC2 processors, 160Mb hard disks and management facilities that bump battery life up to 7.75 hours on the monochrome and 4.8 hours on the colour version; the new machines also have improved peripheral support , with space for either two PCMCIA type 2 cards or a single type 3; a new sub-notebook is also ready, but will not be announced until the summer.
1993	Fujitsu Ltd has signed with the Gnosis Pacific arm of Antwerp-based Gnosis NV to distribute Gnosis' SequeLink Unix software products: SequeLink is a suite of software products that run on both an MS-DOS personal and on the Unix server running the SQL database.
1993	The SiS Distribution Ltd subsidiary of Hong Kong-listed SiS International Holdings Ltd is to distribute Compaq Corp's personal in the Taiwanese market.
1993	MasterCard International Inc has teamed up with Checkfree Corp to provide banks and their customers in the US with remote banking service, enabling customers to pay credit card bills and get financial information via the telephone or personal : MasterCard will provide technology, network management and marketing support and Checkfree will provide electronic bill payment processing, customer service and operations development for the new MasterBanking service.
1993	The new ThinkPad 720C is claimed to feature the largest active matrix colour display in a notebook , and is accompanied by the ThinkPad 720, with a high-contrast monochrome supertwist nematic backlit screen.
1993	Markham, Ontario-based Geac Corp — which has been promising an acquisition a month over the next 12 months, got two under its belt for the same month in May: it has bought the UK end of struggling MAI Systems Corp, MAI (UK) Ltd, and has also picked up Tekserv Services Ltd.
1993	The two companies sell and service MAI Basic Four and other types of hardware throughout the UK and have annual sales of some $2m.
1993	Intel Corp and Microsoft Corp are joining forces to seek to set yet another standard for personal , this time in the field of computer-integrated telephony, the Wall Street Journal reports.
1993	Some 40 other and telecommunications companies were poised to announce support for the new standard, including Lotus Development Corp, Compaq Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, Northern Telecom Ltd and Siemens AG, the last two in their telephone systems.
1993	After 90 days 12 other systems will be supported: Data General Corp AViiON, DEC Alpha OSF/1, Motorola Inc, NEC Corp, Novell Inc NetWare, Pyramid Technology Corp S Series, Sequent Systems Inc, Silicon Graphics Inc, Stratus Inc FTS and VOS and Unisys Corp U6000.
1993	Microsoft Corp has told Sequent Systems Inc, one of its allies in the upcoming Windows NT blitzkrieg , that the server version of Windows NT will start shipping by the third week of June.
1993	The pair are hoping the custom-configured WinServers will prove as easy to deploy as personal .
1993	Commenting on the appointment, Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Jay Stevens told Dow Jones & Co that the automakers have been working to slash excess capacity and workers for years and that that is the situation now faced by IBM after its decades of success in the mainframe market have been undermined.
1993	Geac Corp Ltd, Toronto is to redeem all its Series II Preference shares outstanding on June 15 1993 at either $Can30 each or by conversion into nine common Geac shares for each Series II held.
1993	Communication Intelligence Corp, Redwood Shores, California has filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission to offer 3m shares, 2.7m of them new, to raise an indicated $10.75m, which the manufacturer of components for pen-based says it plans to use for working capital and its proposed joint venture in China.
1993	2000 AG, Munich distributor says it plans to raise the equivalent of $3.2m with a two-for-nine rights issue at 430 marks a share.
1993	2000 AG reported pre-tax profits for the six months to March 31 up 30.6% at the equivalent of $22.9m on turnover up 55.2% at $866.2m.
1993	Remember the sensational flurry a couple of years back when we picked up word that IBM Corp was considering making an agreed offer for Apple Inc?
1993	The talks between Electronic Data Systems Corp and British Telecommunications Plc about a possible alliance have cooled, the Wall Street Journal believes: rather surprisingly, the paper says that British Telecom had been considering buying 25% of General Motors Corp's Class E shares, which simply pay dividends tied to the services subsidiary's performance; it had been assumed that British Telecom would not be interested in holding a significant minority interest in an automaker just to cement an alliance with one of its subsidiaries.
1993	Dell Corp international president Andrew Harris resigned and the company promoted Joel Kocher to president of all sales, marketing and service operations worldwide; he had been president of Dell USA; Dell said that both men were being considered for the post and after Kocher got the job, a disappointed Harris decided to resign.
1993	Redwood Shores, California-based Communication Intelligence Corp has now signed with the Nantong Electronics Development Investment Co in China the outline terms of its proposed joint venture to market pen-based business systems to China's business and government sectors; the US company will invest some $2.6m in cash, shares or both.
1993	Reuter says that with the help of General Media International Inc, the Penthouse magazine empire has just launched a dial-up service in the US where for a monthly fee plus usage, lechers can view their favourite Pets from their personal , ask them to perform various acts — and play photographer, taking shots with the mouse while the model performs…
1993	Intel Corp shares were bouncing late Tuesday, closing up $4.375 at $101.375 on excitement generated by a suggestion from Alex Brown & Sons analyst Erik Jansen that he believed Intel was negotiating to use an IBM Corp chip plant in order to boost production of 80486 and Pentium .
1993	The first salvos in what is threatening to develop into the Windows Wars were duly fired yesterday when Sun Microsystems Inc's SunSelect formally announced its Wabi Windows applications binary interface which enables Windows applications to run under Unix without MS-DOS or Windows being needed, and Microsoft formally announced its alliance with Insignia Solutions Ltd, High Wycombe, to create Windows applications programming interfaces for the Apple Inc Macintosh and Unix and other operating systems.
1993	Manufacturers involved include Adaptec Inc, AST Research Inc, Compaq Corp, Corollary Inc, Hewlett-Packard Co, Intel Corp, NEC Technologies and Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA.
1993	A new French contender in the object database stakes has emerged in the shape of Matisse, from Intellitic International SA, of Saint Quentin en Yvelines — and Waltham, Massachusetts-based parallel systems manufacturer Kendall Square Research Inc and says that after an extensive vendor review to select an object-oriented database developer whose technology would best complement the KSR1 architecture, it concluded that Intellitic's Matisse was the most suitable.
1993	The fuzzyTECH compiler is a Windows-based development environment for personal .
1993	They can also be used for controlling hard and floppy disk drives and ink-jet heads in and for power supply management, line interfacing and filtering in telecommunications applications.
1993	Open Advantage Unix for SAA is available from Burgess Hill, Sussex-based Accent Ltd in the UK at £500 for a single user version, or up to £2,950 for support for up to 254 SNA sessions.
1993	Customers signing up for the Electronic Interchange With Standard Edifact, EIWSE, service will receive their electronic phone billing into either the electronic mailbox or, if they have X400 service, directly into their , Raes said.
1993	Indianapolis-based RasterOps company Truevision Inc has announced its new VideoVGA 16 Desktop Video Production System and a new pair of personal add-in boards, with software.
1993	As well as the VGA adaptor, the board uses a personal 's VGA colour monitor for all user controls and display of video signal data.
1993	Sciences Corp has reported fourth quarter net profits up 10.2% at $26.1m on turnover that rose 0.8% at $650.3m; net profit for the year to April 2 rose 14.6% at $78.1m on turnover that rose 17.3% at $2,479.8m.
1993	Ravenous Geac Corp Ltd, Markham, Ontario, hyperactively busy buying up the foreign subsidiaries of moribund companies, has now bought NBI Canada Inc for under $800,000; the networking company does some $1.6m a year.
1993	Advanced Micro Devices Inc is to sublease three buildings with a total of 175,000 square feet, enabling it to consolidate all of its Silicon Valley operations at one contiguous campus in Sunnyvale; the three buildings formerly housed MIPS Systems Inc and AMD will sublease them from Silicon Graphics Inc, now parent of MIPS.
1993	Northgate Corp, reporting losses up over 40% at $2.1m on sales off 47% at $18.3m, said James Goetz, president and chief executive, had resigned; pending a decision by the board, Khaled Ibrahim, chief financial officer, will supervise the company's operations.
1993	SCIENCES EXPECTS FIRST QUARTER GAIN
1993	El Segundo, California-based Sciences Corp says it expects to record a net gain of about $5m in the first quarter of fiscal 1994 on adoption of a new accounting rule covering income tax reporting.
1993	TOSHIBA SHIPS DYNAPAD T100X PEN FOR $3,000
1993	Toshiba America Information Systems Inc, Irvine, California is now shipping the Dynapad T100X pen at $3,000: the 3 lbs 5 oz machine uses a 4Mb Am386SXLV CPU and has a 9.5″ VGA-compatible black and white transreflective display with 16 gray scales, 40Mb disk, two PCMCIA 2.0 slots and user-installable credit card-sized memory slot.
1993	Enterprise Holdings Plc said on Tuesday that when its accounts for the 15 months to end-March 1992, were signed last year, the group's accountants, KPMG Peat Marwick, had not signed the audit report of its principal subsidiary, Enterprise Services, the Daily Telegraph reports: the subsidiary's accounts for that period are now in the process of being filed and will be qualified by KPMG Peat Marwick on a going concern basis; Louis Kemp, new finance director, wants to know how it happened.
1993	Having conquered the UK personal market, Elonex Plc is the first European personal producer to strike an OEM deal with Univel Inc, the Novell Inc-Unix System Laboratories Inc venture.
1993	On May 11 at the SunWorld Expo Sun Microsystems Corp is to complete its Enterprise Server family with the introduction of its scalable Common Open Systems Environment-compliant 1,500-user, eight-way Scorpion, now officially tagged the Sparcserver 1000, a mid-range multiprocessor.
1993	Intent on fattening its meagre $20m Italian business — in a total market of between $20,000m and $30,000m — EDS has been negotiating with a number of companies, including Rome-based Database Informatica SpA, Italy's third-largest systems house after Finsiel and Olivetti Information Systems, say sources at EDS and Database Informatica.
1993	Ribas says EDS is interested most in Italy's manufacturing sector, ‘which is huge, because studies show that are still not used strategically.
1993	In an eerie reversal of the situation in the North American market, Oracle's next biggest competitor isn't the plucky standards-hot Sybase but virtually a legacy operation, Ingres, currently owned by Ask Systems Inc.
1993	The new recruits have specialist skills in open systems, particularly fourth generation languages such as Oracle Corp's and Ingres Corp's, as well as in networked personal systems.
1993	Corrected Result: Tandem Inc has reported second quarter net profits up 26.0% at $11.1m on turnover that rose 2.9% at $517.6m; mid-term net profit was $28.6m after a gain of $12.6m from the cumulative effect of an accounting change, against a loss last time of $85.8m, on turnover that rose 4.6% at $1,001.5m.
1993	Apple France SA has cut retail prices of all its products by up to 33%, and says the impact 3, should show up quickly because of the fiercely competitive nature of the industry: ‘we aim to increase the number of our users and conquer new markets,’ it said, adding that it intends to establish a new pricing policy for resellers; ‘the demand for our products is still strong, with a worldwide volume growth rate of 18% in the second half of our fiscal 1993, compared to the same period in fiscal 92,’said Giancarlo Zanni, managing director of Apple France.
1993	Seems that Louis Gerstner has decided that the IBM Corp culture has to be changed from the top down as a priority, and he has again gone outside the company — and the industry — for a senior appointment, hiring Gerald Czarnecki, chairman and chief executive of the Bank of America Hawaii unit of BankAmerica Corp to be the new senior vice-president in charge of human resources and administration.
1993	IBM Corp has filed a $7.3m federal lawsuit against Nutri-System Inc, saying the debt-ridden diet company failed to make payments on 500 personal it had leased — but it sounds as if the Armonkeys will have to sing for their money: the suit accuses the Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, company of making no payments since December and of refusing to allow IBM to repossess the machines, but some of Nutri-System's major franchisees have filed an involuntary bankruptcy petition against the company under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy laws — Chapter 7 means curtains — and last week, banks seized all its cash and bank accounts, forcing the company to close its 283 company-owned weight-loss centres across the US; while Nutri-System has failed to pay only $965,380 due under its lease with IBM, a default entitles IBM to recover the full lease sum of $7.3m.
1993	SCIENCES ENTER AGREEMENT WITH SUN
1993	Sciences Corp, El Segundo, California entered a joint sales and marketing agreement with Sun Microsystems Inc to market client-server systems in the global aerospace manufacturing industry and the two are looking for combined revenues from the partnership to total about $80m over 18 months.
1993	ENTERPRISE HOLDINGS FEARS MISUNDERSTANDING
1993	Enterprise Holdings Plc fears it has been misunderstood: the company is keen to stress that Finance Director Les Kemp has the unhappy confusion over last year's accounting figures under control (CI No 2,162) but wants to know how accountants KPMG Peat Marwick managed not to sign the audit report for subsidiary Enterprise Services; apparently there was confusion at the time over the verification of certain bank loans; all should be clear in the next report and the company says it expects to show a return to profit.
1993	Now that the transition into a string of planets is well-established, we suspect Scott McNealy is wearying of playing the dual and sometimes conflicting roles of chief executive of parent company Sun Microsystems Inc and president of the company's systems planet Sun Microsystems Corp, having to go to both sets of meetings and deal with other planets as an equal who is also their boss, and he could well be on the look-out for a president for the hardware unit; some say he's being urged to split the company up even further by some of his lieutenants.
1993	Sausalito, California-based design automation specialist Autodesk Inc, which has its UK base in Guildford, Surrey, has entered the home market with the launch of a new range of computer-aided design modules for Do-it-Yourself enthusiasts, interior and exterior designers as well as small business home renovation contractors: ‘The Home Series’ comprises four modules — one for designing landscapes, one for bathrooms, one for kitchens, and one for general home improvements; the software was released in the US 18 months ago, and into Australia and the Benelux countries between six and nine months ago, but is now available in the UK via Solihull, West Midlands-based distributor, Force 2 International Ltd, at £60 per module including value-added tax; the decision to release into the UK was taken after research from Banner & Co indicated that the UK home market was growing 25% per year, and a study by market research company, Jordans, indicated that the UK DIY market was growing at an average 3%; according to marketing communications manager Karen Hiscock, ‘the time was right’because people now want to do more with their personal than just play games or use the things as word processors.
1993	Compagnie des Machines Bull SA's Buffalo Grove, Illinois-based company Zenith Data Systems is to bundle Borland International Inc's Paradox for Windows database and Quattro Pro spreadsheet with its personal under a special European agreement: the special offer, which will last for the summer, covers all Z-series Z-Stations desktops and Z-Notes notebooks.
1993	This week the same group of companies that are backing the Sun Microsystems Inc WABI Windows Application Binary Interface for Unix are expected to lend their support to what might as well be called MABI, Apple Inc's Mac-on-Unix defence against the forces of Microsoft Corp, today's issue of our sister paper Unigram.X reports.
1993	Meantime the Kaleida Labs Inc joint venture between IBM Corp and Apple Inc in Mountain View, California has submitted its ScriptX specifications to the Interactive Multimedia Association in response to the trade group's Multimedia Scripting Language Request for Technology.
1993	ScriptX is described as a fully-functional object-oriented scripting language and set of data specifications designed to enable the development and playback of a single multimedia title on a variety of personal and workstations, personal digital assistants and consumer electronics products.
1993	The fierce public rivalry between IBM Corp and Microsoft Corp begins to look like the posturing of all-in wrestlers that do it all for show: according to Reseller News, IBM is quietly working with the Redmond dominator to put Windows NT up on the PowerPC RISC.
1993	Contact is the developer and marketer of ACT! contact management software for sales and service staff, which runs under MS-DOS, Windows, Macintosh and on palmtop HP 95LX .
1993	Suppliers of design tools include Capilano Computing and IsData GmbH, and Synopsys Inc is among the aided design software suppliers.
1993	Advin Systems, Micropross, SMS North America, Stag Microsystems and Systems General supply programming software while Acugen Software, Integrated Network Analysis and iNt GmbH provide testing software.
1993	Personal network service company Maddox Group Plc, set up as recently as February 1992, is already making profits, claims a 4% share of the corporate market, and intends to keep on growing by acquisition.
1993	It specialises in the consultancy, design, installation, maintenance and support of personal networks for IBM Corp and Compaq Corp kit.
1993	Profiles, acquired in February 1993 (CI No 2,106), complements these activities, but specialises in IBM RS/6000 Unix-based systems.
1993	Apple Inc filed a shelf registration with the Securities & Exchange Commission for up to $500m of debt securities, common stock and warrants and net proceeds will be used to increase working capital and possible financing of capital expenditures.
1993	Concurrent Corp, Oceanport, New Jersey says it intends to file a registration statement soon for a public offer of shares sufficient to raise about $60m.
1993	Cray Corp has reported a first quarter net loss of $11.5m, down from a loss last time of $13.9m, on turnover that was unchanged at $83,000.
1993	Virgin Group Plc is planning to enter the mass-market UK personal business via a supplies company, Virgin Euromagnetics Ltd that it has owned for two years, the Financial Times reports: £12m-a-year Virgin Euromagnetics packages supplies such as floppy disks, which are sold in Virgin stores, and has designed an 80486 machine that is to be built under contract for Virgin in the UK, initially at a rate of around 3,000 a month; the paper says that the machine may be bundled with a laser printer for about £1,200, and the plan is to launch in September.
1993	Intel Corp is said to be talking eagerly to anyone with cooling technology that could prevent its Pentiums turning personal into desktop microwave ovens.
1993	NORTECH SYSTEMS LOOKING TO ACQUIRE SOME CUSTOM CABLE ASSETS
1993	Minneapolis-based cable assemblies maker Nortech Systems Inc signed a letter of intent to acquire some assets of Custom Cable Inc, a contract manufacturing and data communications company based in Eden Prairie, Minnesota: terms of the pact were not disclosed.
1993	Funny that — that's what a lot of people familiar with Macintosh System say about Windows: commenting on the venture between Apple Inc and Novell Inc to build the Macintosh look and feel atop DR DOS, Microsoft Corp general manager Brad Chase told the Wall Street Journal he didn't see any new software from Apple and Novell as a threat — such software ‘is like putting lipstick on a chicken,’ he said —‘but it's still a chicken.’
1993	Apple Inc yesterday duly announced its plans to enable users to run Macintosh applications unmodified on Unix servers, workstations and X terminals as Apple Services for Open Systems, and showed Macintosh System 7 running on a PowerPC 601.
1993	Its first PowerPC machines will appear in first half 1994, and the Centris 610 and 650 , Mac IIvx and IIvi, Performa 600 and Quadra 800 systems will be field-upgradable to the new CPU.
1993	Canon Inc says it plans to resurrect NeXT Inc's Redwood City, California workstation business.
1993	Canon still holds 17% of NeXT Inc, which is hoping to continue as a software company.
1993	Taligent Inc, the Apple Inc-IBM Corp venture devoted to building an object-oriented operating system environment plans to deliver a complete 32-bit object-oriented operating system around the middle of 1995 and will be looking well beyond its masters' horizons for custom.
1993	Microsoft senior vice-president Paul Maritz told Compaq Corp he was expecting NT to ship by the end of June and Sequent Systems Inc was told pretty much the same.
1993	Other supporters include BT North America, General Magic Corp, Psion Plc, SHL Systemhouse Ltd and Tandem Inc.
1993	East Grinstead, West Sussex-based company Shakespeare Speechwriter UK Ltd, formerly EMG Software, has come up with the ultimate system for keyboard-phobes — a voice activated personal .
1993	It comprises a ‘one stop shop’ pre-configured, 80486 Compaq Corp 450 Prolinea, running under MS-DOS, provided complete with microphone headset.
1993	However, Shakespeare's managing director Malcolm McPherson is currently speaking to Intel Corp with a view to producing a viable shrink-wrapped version for 80486 personal users.
1993	According to Corrado Passera, the number two executive at Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA, the Italian manufacturer's problems are not financial, but economic, caused by margin pressures in the personal business.
1993	According to Passera, the personal division is budgeted to make a profit this year.
1993	VIGLEN THRIVES IN THE UK PERSONAL MARKET WITH SALES UP 43%
1993	Unlike the many victims of the personal price war, London-based manufacturer Viglen Ltd is thriving, with turnover up 43% to £54m because of what it describes as its emphasis on customer support.
1993	PERSONAL SOFTWARE SALES IN EUROPE PC UP 19%
1993	The Paris-based European end of the Software Publishers Association reports that the European market for personal software products grew 19% by revenue last year, to $1,700m, which was greater than the 14% increase registered in the US.
1993	The figures clearly showed the effects of price-cutting in the personal software mass market — European sales by unit increased by 53%.
1993	Concurrent Corp, the Oceanport, New Jersey real-time Unix and proprietary systems builder, duly filed to offer sufficient new shares to raise about $60m (CI No 2,165), probably in June.
1993	The downgrade reflects Moody's expectations that NEC's debt protection measures will be considerably lower than historical results because of severe competition in several of its key markets and likelihood of market share erosion in NEC's personal business, the agency said.
1993	The recognition by IBM Corp that Microsoft Corp products are not going to go away and that it can't build its own personal world solely on OS/2 — which has led the company to decide to put NT up on the PowerPC and to do a DB2/NT version of its personal database is to culminate in a meeting between new IBM chief executive Louis Gerstner and Microsoft chief Bill Gates later this month to discuss areas of mutual interest, the Wall Street Journal says.
1993	IBM Corp has at last woken up to the fact that to remain competitive in the personal business, it is necessary constantly to add new models, and in the US, the company yesterday added new 80486-based PS/1 models based on chips ranging from the 25MHz 80486SX to the 66MHz 80486DX2; they come in desktop and minitower configurations and are available now at prices expected to go from $1,200 to $3,000; they are upgradable to the Pentium.
1993	Harris Corp's Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based systems division has signed Singapore Electronic & Engineering Ltd to distribute its real time Night Hawk systems throughout the Pacific Rim and provide technical support.
1993	ASSOCIATES TRIED TO ACQUIRE NOVELL
1993	Borland International Inc chief executive officer Phillipe Kahn told InformationWeek that Associates International Inc wined and dined Novell Inc boss Ray Noorda in an attempt to acquire the NetWare company: Kahn said Noorda quoted an inflated price and chief Associate Charles Wang and executive vice-president Sanjay Kumar stormed away from the table; the Islandia, New York company has also try to get Borland, Kahn said, going so far as to threaten a hostile takeover bid for the company.
1993	OUTSOURCING SERVICES TO ACQUIRE ANONYMOUS PAYROLL SERVICES COMPANY
1993	New York-based Outsourcing Services Inc signed a definitive agreement to acquire that privately-owned provider of payroll processing and services, which the acquirer declines to name, for 150,000 new shares: Outsourcing expects it to do $3m in gross revenues in the first year.
1993	OLIVETTI APPOINTS ACORN FOUNDER AS DIRECTOR
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA has appointed Acorn Ltd founder, Dr Andrew Hopper as director of corporate research: he will continue to head up Olivetti Research Ltd's UK laboratories in Cambridge — which he also helped to set up — but will also direct research at the firm's Pozzuoli facility in southern Italy, where he replaces Piercarlo Ravasio; he reports to Lucio Pinto, executive vice-president, technology strategy and corporate research.
1993	Stratus Inc said it opened a Unix Porting and Technical Center in Dublin, Ireland, for customers and applications software developers outside North America.
1993	Oracle Corp and US West Inc duly announced details of their alliance yesterday, saying that they were jointly developing a multimedia information server to enable access to information at any time from any place in any form — via personal , facsimile machine or a cellular or conventional telephone — and eventually via a screenphone, an interactive television set or a personal digital assistant.
1993	IBM Corp significantly stepped up its efforts in the merchant semiconductor market late Monday when it announced that it is now sampling the PowerPC 601 RISC microprocessor, with production volumes shipping in the third quarter, and announced its entry into the application specific market with CMOS and BiCMOS process technologies and access to industry-standard ASIC design tools and new applications support services, aiming to deliver ASICs based on gate-array and standard-cell technologies for and other systems manufacturers.
1993	Also, the date on the statement showed that Brooks Brothers' were programmed to shorten the billing cycle.
1993	IBM's personal business, particularly its latest manifestation, is a typical mass market operation.
1993	Echo Logic Inc, Holmdel, New Jersey AT&T Co Bell Laboratories spin-out, has unveiled its FlashPort for Macintosh tool set, a binary software translation environment for converting Motorola Inc 68000-based Apple Inc Macintosh programs to run on PowerPC systems under Macintosh System or the IBM Corp AIX Unix-based PowerOpen.
1993	Tandem Inc's San Jose-based Ungermann-Bass Inc is trying to make the management of growing 10BaseT networks easier.
1993	DEC EXPECTED TO LAUNCH FIRST ALPHA PERSONAL ON MAY 25
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is tipped to unveil its 150MHz Alpha AXP-based personal for Windows NT at the Windows World expo alongside Comdex Spring in Atlanta, Georgia on on May 25.
1993	It also plans to roll out a sub-$5,000 range of Alpha personal later this year.
1993	Tel-me is a software package that runs on 80386 or 80486 personal under Microsoft Corp Windows 3.1.
1993	Speaking at the company's developers conference, Apple Inc chairman John Sculley said he expects the company's strong momentum to continue into the second half of the fiscal year, adding that among new products on the stocks are the speech recognition system code-named Caspar and the pen-based portable notebook.
1993	Apple expects to sell its one millionth PowerBook portable sometime this year and a PowerBook model with an electronic stylus is set for later this year.
1993	Sculley repeated that the Newton hand-held will be shipping this summer and will soon be equipped with paging and messaging features as the product becomes a family.
1993	Systems & Technology Inc has reported second quarter net profits up 62.2% at $1.8m, after $538,000 tax credits this time and $284,000 credits last time, on turnover up 41.8% at $28.9m; mid-term net rose 16% to $3m, after $886,000 tax credits this time and $683,000 credits last time, on turnover up 39% at $55.8m.
1993	Zenith Data Systems reports that an administrative law judge denied the latest round of protests in the long-running Desktop IV personal procurement battle, leaving Zenith and Government Technology Services Inc of Chantilly, Virginia to share the estimated $724m contract.
1993	Microgen Holdings Plc is moving into Norway: its Capella AB Swedish subsidiary is paying the equivalent of £1.14m, £950,000 of it upfront, the rest after 12 months, for the output microfilm business of EDB A/S: the business has annual turnover running at about £2.85m, and assets are valued at £76,000.
1993	NCR TO ESTABLISH RETAIL SERVICE CENTRES
1993	NCR Corp says it plans to establish retail service centres in more than 50 US metropolitan areas as an alternative to on-site maintenance: the service centres will offer carry-in and mail-in hardware maintenance on a wide variety of desktop personal and peripherals, from NCR and third parties; the centres will also market products including power line conditioners, upgrades and consumables, and NCR personal .
1993	IBM Corp and Blockbuster Entertainment Corp were yesterday due to launch their joint venture to market systems for duplicating audio compact disk recordings in retail stores: the idea is that record companies could eliminate the need to press hundreds of thousands of copies of major recordings — instead the store would tap into central databases at each record company to collect the tracks requested and record them onto a blank disk; although no pilot systems have yet been launched, IBM said the system also could be used to make and sell software and video games on demand; the IBM-Blockbuster system is expected to be designed to distribute albums in original form, rather than enabling customers to mix and match their choice of tracks, and negotiations are reportedly already under way with several record companies; a typical CD would take about six minutes to make, complete with the glossy packaging buyers expect.
1993	IBM Corp will be split into independent companies, Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft Corp, told La Tribune in an interview: he said workstations and large systems would need to keep the IBM name, but consulting, disks and personal could go by other names.
1993	Apple Inc is now shipping the beta test version of QuickDraw GX software to some 15,000 Developer Programme members worldwide.
1993	Product line consistency is not the strongest suit of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG — first the company becomes a founder sponsor of the Open Software Foundation and then adopts Unix System V as its standard, now its US arm, Siemens Nixdorf USA, has turned to Sun Microsystems Corp for point-of-sale control processors despite the fact that Siemens' chosen RISC — versions of which it fabricates — is the R-series.
1993	This work could eventually lead to better machine vision systems and optoelectronic neural integrated circuits that would literally enable parallel to process data at the speed of light.
1993	However it is not just the press that's causing Parker difficulties — the company's personal , mid-range and networking arms are all happy to explain how they are perfectly capable of running enterprise-wide applications, and the company's most swingeing cuts are being aimed at the Enterprise Systems division.
1993	Apple Inc's laser printer and Cisco Systems Inc's dedicated router are other examples of the notion, according to Network Appliance president Michael Malcolm, founder of Canada's Waterloo Microsystems Inc, now part of Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc.
1993	Network Appliance has got its machines as far as beta test on less than $1m, its initial $1.4m coming from the likes of Autodesk Inc chief executive Carol Bartz, ex-Digital Equipment Corp engineering vice-president Gordon Bell, former Sun Microsystems Inc president Owen Brown, former Microsoft Corp president Mike Hallman, former NetFrame chief executive David Hanna, Tandem Inc co-founder Jim Katzman and MIPS Technologies Inc co-founder Skip Stritter among others.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc's SunSelect formally announced its Wabi Windows applications binary interface which enables Windows applications to run under Unix without MS-DOS or Windows being needed, and Microsoft Corp announced its alliance with UK firm Insignia Solutions Ltd, High Wycombe, to create Windows applications programming interfaces for the Apple Inc Macintosh and Unix and other operating systems.
1993	Not everyone is infected with Wabimania, and among the dissidents is Gerry Popek, head of Santa Monica, California-based Locus Computing Corp, who is of course a Wabi competitor with Merge, his virtual personal mechanism for running Microsoft Corp operating systems under Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix and now UnixWare.
1993	AT&T Co's manufacturing company NCR Corp has formed a new pan-European consulting and design centre, with the aim of providing multi-site and multinational companies with an integrated set of services that span national boundaries.
1993	An optional gateway function to other terminals and personal is included, as is a printing function.
1993	The new ScaNet/RemotePC is designed to give ScaNet users remote access from personal via a modem.
1993	The company is now in a regulatory climate where no objection would be made to either of its corporate investors, NEC Corp and IBM Corp, each with around 5%, greatly increasing their stakes in the company — to perhaps 25% each — but IBM has no cash to spare even if it wanted to get more involved with a company forever at the mercy of the shifting tides of French policy and NEC Corp, which two or three years ago would have jumped at the opportunity of making Bull a European and US outlet for far more of its products, faces a price war in its cash cow personal business back home and faces such a hard time that it has just seen its debt ratings cut — at a time when cheap capital is no longer available in Japan.
1993	21CenNet Inc, Richardson, Texas-based developer of key enabling technologies for enhancing portable communications, has raised $5m in venture funding from InterWest Partners, Sevin Rosen Funds and Compaq Corp. 21CenNet wants the cash to fund development of its MobileWare technologies, which are being designed to support both wireless and wired end-to-end communications to enable portable computing devices to access company information systems by providing a reliable extension of corporate local area networks over public telephone and wireless networks.
1993	Apple Inc and Symantec Corp have extended their collaboration on Symantec's Bedrock technology for facilitating development of applications that will run under both Windows and Macintosh System, and they will work together to develop and market the next-generation development environment for the Macintosh: the environment will initially target Apple's PowerPC-based systems, and will address the needs of developers creating native applications; they will share engineering resources and build on Symantec's new C++ 6.0 for Macintosh, and on Apple's Macintosh Programmer's Workshop; it will be based on an open architecture that enables interoperability with software tools developed by other vendors.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp and Oracle Corp say that under the Transaction Processing Performance Council Benchmark A the eight-processor model of Sun Microsystems' new Sparcserver 1000 under Oracle7 Co-operative Server delivered 400.80 transactions a second for price-performance of $5,987 a tpsA.
1993	The Lombard, Illinois-based Dauphin Technology Inc company developing the DTR-1 ‘world's smallest 80486 ’(CI No 2,085), has signed IBM Corp to a $150m contract to make the handheld device at its Austin Industrial Business Center in Austin, Texas.
1993	If the talks fail, Lotus may seek a licensing deal with Apple Inc's Claris unit, or another database maker, the Journal was told.
1993	Fiendishly clever trading of financial instruments using hideously complex algorithms is all the rage on Wall Street and increasingly in Tokyo, and now researchers at the London Parallel Applications Centre, based at London's Queen Mary & Westfield College, are developing special library tools for financial modelling with the support of Digital Equipment Co Ltd and Oxford mathematical library supplier Numerical Algorithms Group Ltd, or NAG.
1993	The project will use the Centre's recently delivered DECmpp 12000Sx massively parallel — from Maspar Corp marketed by DEC — which has 8,192 CPUs.
1993	It is presently working on a Pentium-upgradable board for its Expresso line of personal which it intends to have ready by the summer.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA intends to launch a new line of notebook in the summer to replace its German Triumph Adler subsidiary's range of Walkstation portables.
1993	As a result, Triumph Adler will cease all production at its Nuremburg plant, although its factory in Frankfurt will continue to build desktop personal , and its Scottish site will still supply components.
1993	First, because its core business consists of manufacturing personal , it wants to control what it sees as a strategic market.
1993	Qudis Networks Ltd is to be the primary distributor for the system in the UK and the list price is £700 for each personal .
1993	Microsystem Engineering Rt, the Budapest-based distribution firm, announced a 1992 turnover of $22m.
1993	Tandem Inc has opened a new subsidiary in Budapest, increasing the company's presence in Central and Eastern Europe.
1993	The system at the Budapest Stock Exchange has now been up and running for about two weeks, and according to chief system analyst Andrei Bagi, there has been only one minor teething problem.
1993	Finance for the system itself came from the European Community PHARE programme.
1993	PERSONAL MANUFACTURER MUSZERTECHNIKA IMPROVES ITS PERFORMANCE BY SOURCING FROM FAR EAST
1993	Muszertechnika Holding Rt, which claims to be the largest manufacturer, distributor and retailer of IBM-compatible personal in Hungary, reported a group turnover of $39m for 1992 — up from an estimated $30m in 1991.
1993	The company's computer-related business is carried out through a subsidiary, MT Rt, in which IBM Corp took a minority stake in April 1992.
1993	MT Rt in turn, owns sales operations in Poland, Albania, Romania, the Czech and Slovak Republics and some former-Jugoslav Republics via its wholly-owned subsidiary Procom.
1993	Muszertechnika recently switched its MT and Procomp branded personal assembly operation from Budapest to subcontractors in Singapore.
1993	EUROPEAN PERSONAL MARKET GREW 19% — BUT IT CAN'T CONTINUE — DATAQUEST
1993	Recession may be burying the major continental economies, with the likelihood that things will get much worse before they start to get better, but the European personal market continued to prosper in the first quarter, the Wall Street Journal reports.
1993	According to the quarterly Wall Street Journal Europe-Dataquest Europe Ltd report on the market, sales of personal rose 19.4% to 2.5m machines, just shy of the 20.8% rise in the fourth quarter of 1992 — but volume ain't all, and the price war meant that total industry revenue slipped 3.3% to $5,100m.
1993	As might be expected, the biggest winner was Compaq Corp, which nearly doubled its share of shipments to 10.7% from 5.6% a year earlier, and increased its share of industry revenue to 13.7% from 8.9%.
1993	IBM Corp, Dell Corp and Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG also gained market share, but Apple Inc and Commodore International Ltd were losers in the share stakes.
1993	Eric Cador, marketing centre director for Hewlett-Packard Co's personal division in Grenoble, France is a contrarian and expects his own company to ship 2.4 to 2.5 times as many Vectras in Europe in the current quarter as it did a year earlier and he forecasts that revenue will double from the year-ago level.
1993	The finalists for the enormous 10-year facilities management contract on offer from the UK Inland Revenue tax-gathering authority are Sciences Corp with IBM UK Ltd and Electronic Data Systems Corp with its UK subsidiary Scicon Ltd: final award is expected to be made in October, and work on the contract will begin in January 1994.
1993	General Motors Corp's Electronic Data Systems Corp unit has talked to a ‘number of’ telecommunications companies about establishing a business relationship, the automaker's general counsel Harry Pearce told Reuter: Pearce confirmed that talks between the services giant and British Telecommunications Plc have ended, and said that the company has talked to ‘all the obvious suspects’in telecommunications.
1993	Chatsworth, California-based personal manufacturer Packard Bell Inc has established a headquarters facility in the Netherlands to handle manufacturing, distribution and service for Packard Bell products throughout Europe: the new unit includes 250 employees; last year, Packard Bell did about $100m in Europe, 10% of its 1992 worldwide sales of $925m, and looks for $200m or 16% this year.
1993	Chicago-based R R Donnelley & Sons Co says it bought SoftCopy Inc, which duplicates floppy disks in Orem, Utah; terms were not disclosed; founded in 1984, SoftCopy has about 200 people and provides floppy replication, inventory management, order processing and distribution for hardware and software manufacturers, it added.
1993	Osaka, Japan-based Seiko Epson Co has started a new made-to-order personal business in the US: it will custom-build machines to customer specifications at a factory in Indiana, but production of high-grade machines at the Portland, Oregon, factory will be scaled down gradually from some 2,000 a month because of the weight of competition in the US market.
1993	Former Cray Research Inc chairman John Rollwagen has withdrawn his name from further consideration for the number two post at the US Commerce Department after the Securities & Exchange Commission asked him to participate in an insider trading probe centring on sale of shares in Cray Corp ahead of that company's announcement that it had lost its only Cray 3 order.
1993	Apple Inc has signed to put its name on 3.5″ floppies made by Kao Corp's Kao Infosystems Canada Inc under a licensing pact.
1993	American Mitac Corp, the US end of Taiwanese personal manufacturer Mitac International Inc, is combining its operations with those of Fremont, California distributor of and peripherals Compac Microelectronics Inc.
1993	The two will consolidate North American operations under the Compac name to create ‘the first distributor with full-scale manufacturing capability’.
1993	NETWORK TO BUY ULTRA NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES
1993	Ultra Network Technologies Inc, the pioneer of 800Mbps and up local area networking, has signed a letter of intent to sell out to Maple Grove, Minnesota-based Network Technology Corp, which has agreed to pay about $1.88m in shares for the privately held firm.
1993	Colorado Springs-based Cray Corp finally shipped its first Cray-3 supercomputer.
1993	It is offering its Audio Solution Board, which is a single board system with support for CD ROM drives, and is intended to enable a to be used as a sound studio.
1993	The Sony Electronic Publishing Co unit of Sony Corp has acquired Liverpool-based and video games software developer and publisher Psygnosis Ltd on undisclosed terms.
1993	Psygnosis, a Queen's Award for Exports winner in this year's list, will continue to market and distribute software under its own brand, as well as developing software for Sony Electronic Publishing's video games division.
1993	The company, which offers the Stacker family of data compression products for personal , has been unsettled by Microsoft Corp's inclusion of compression in MS-DOS 6, which is blamed for the job cuts.
1993	The Advanced Server version of the operating system additionally includes centralised management and security, remote access services, and network support for Apple Inc Macintosh systems.
1993	Nevertheless, they say, Windows NT will be fundamental in Microsoft's strategy to move it business from desktop personal — MS-DOS already runs on about 90% of the 140m machines worldwide — to mid-range and high-end systems.
1993	Among the queue of nervous users invited onto the stage to be interviewed by an avuncular Bill Gates was one from National Westminster Bank Plc, which is developing a document management and workflow system based on 40 multiprocessor Sequent Systems Inc servers and 150 Windows for Workgroups clients; Gates said 20 hardware vendors have now agreed to bundle NT with their hardware — but starkly different from this focus was Gates' assertion that most NT sales would come from people upgrading existing Windows machines.
1993	IBM Corp joined with Phoenix Technologies Ltd to license the IBM personal BIOS: the program enables OEM customers to access IBM's SurePath PC Standard specification for software compatibility interfaces, and through Phoenix, they will also get access to IBM's Architecture Review Board to extend the SurePath PC standard specification for new technologies and features, the partners said.
1993	Dell Corp, SuperMac Technology Inc and Adobe Systems Inc announced formation of the Power Publishing Alliance to offer two Windows-based colour publishing systems, the Dell Power Publishing Workstation (433/ME0 and The Dell Power Publishing SuperStation (466/ME), to be available from Dell from June 22: the systems are equipped with SuperMac's SuperMatch colour monitor, SuperMatch Thunder/24 EISA video board and Adobe software; the Power Publishing WorkStation is $6,700, the Power Publishing SuperStation is $9,000.
1993	Tandem Inc's networking equipment company Ungermann-Bass Inc has launched a version of its NetDirector network management system for Unix.
1993	Ungermann-Bass has also announced what it claims is the first multi-protocol communications product for remote personal and terminals to be fully integrated into the hub environment.
1993	The ASM160 is an asynchronous communications server, designed as a module for the Access/One Enterprise hub, which provides managed communications for both local and remote terminals, personal , modems and printers to multi-protocol Ethernet local networks.
1993	NEC BRINGS TWO OF ITS IMAGE SERIES OF DESKTOP 80486 TO THE UK
1993	In an attempt to cash in on the UK corporate market's growing appetite for high speed personal graphics, NEC Corp has introduced its Image Series of desktops, launched in the US in February (CI No 2,116).
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, a key partner in Microsoft Corp's NT-on-multiprocessors push, is believed to have sent Microsoft changes in the code to enable Microsoft to add 30-way processor support for NT some time ago, and the last minute expectation before launch of NT yesterday was that it would be included on the NT compact disk.
1993	Former senior vice-president of marketing Dennis Peck is now consulting for the firm, mostly on large-scale Unix issues, as a result of both the merciless California property market and a highly successful wife who sells for another company, two reasons that make his moving to Oregon impossible.
1993	The agreement will also enable Insignia to improve the Windows on Apple Inc Macintosh version of its emulation software.
1993	MEDIA TECHNOLOGIES CHIP PROMISES TO CUT MULTIMEDIA COST
1993	Media Technologies Inc of Santa Clara reckons that its new Video Manager+ — VM+ — chip has got the wherewithal significantly to reduce the cost of multimedia support on personal .
1993	Media reckons that combining audio, video and graphics onto a single board will avoid incompatibilities common in personal stuffed full of multimedia boards, but in addition one of its customers is building the chip-set into a personal motherboard and the company says that it expects to see more this as multimedia standards firm up.
1993	VM+ supports Video for Windows and Apple Inc QuickTime interfaces as well as Intel's Indeo video compression hardware.
1993	UK PERSONAL DIRECT MARKETERS' ASSOCIATION FORMED TO PROTECT CUSTOMERS — BUT THE US MAJORS STAY AWAY
1993	The UK personal industry's first direct sales trade association was launched on May 21 both to try to protect customers from a business renowned for its cowboys and to guarantee customers a certain level of service quality.
1993	The Personal Direct Marketers' Association, PCDMA, is the brainchild of sales and marketing consultant Keith Warburton, and includes not only companies that sell hardware direct to the corporate or business user, but also ‘off-the-page’ systems integrators, value-added resellers and dealers.
1993	The eight founder members are Viglen Ltd; Granville, which includes Time and Colossus; Dan Technology; Kamco Systems; Evesham Micros Ltd; Mesh; Centerprise International Ltd; and CIC Ltd.
1993	While membership of both organisations is not mutually exclusive, he added, the Personal Direct Marketing Association was set up to protect customer interests and the interests of the direct sales industry alone.
1993	VideoCube is an on-line non-linear digital video editing system, which has an Apple Inc's Macintosh user interface and a Macintosh kernel .
1993	Liuski International Inc, Melville, New York distributor of microcomputer peripherals, components and accessories throughout the US and some foreign countries, and a manufacturer of Magitronic brand of personal , got its initial public offering of 1.2m shares, 1.1m of them new, away at $9.625 a share; the net proceeds to the company of $9.29m will be used to repay part of the revolving credit loan, opening of two new distribution centres and upgrading of inventory control systems.
1993	Micronics Inc has reported second quarter net profits up 32.3% at $3.1m, on sales up 22.8% at $50.2m; mid-term net fell 1% to $5.1m, on sales up 17.4% at $92.5m.
1993	NeXT Inc is due to launch its NeXTstep environment for Intel Corp processors at midnight tonight London time, and at the launch, it says Steve Jobs will discuss the future of object-oriented client-server computing in NeXT's new role as a dedicated software company.
1993	The Apple USA division of Apple Inc authorised Wal-Mart Stores Inc to sell a custom version of the Macintosh Performa 400 series , initially through 500 Wal-Mart stores; Wal-Mart plans to expand distribution of Performa to about 1,400 locations by year-end.
1993	Unisys Corp says it will support Microsoft Corp's Windows NT 3.1 and Advanced Server NT in client and entry-level local area networks for its customers, starting with its PW2 Advantage and Advantage Plus personal ; the company will then offer MS-DOS, Windows 3.1, Unix System V.4, NetWare, Univel UnixWare, Santa Cruz Unix, OS/2 and the company's own CTOS.
1993	Paris-based services and distribution group Metrologie International SA said it had an operating loss in the first quarter of 1993 due to a drop in activity and pressures to reduce gross margins: the loss was equivalent to about $3.6m and turnover on a like-for-like basis fell 15.9% to $73.5m.
1993	Ziff-Davis Publishing Co is closing PC Sources and is turning Corporate Computing into a newsletter; the first was beaten out of the market by another Ziff publication, and the latter was squeezed as Ziff's personal magazines increasingly encroached on its turf.
1993	The parade of Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA managers should finally be concluded, says a report in La Repubblica, after the Milan judges interrogated Antonio Garrani, Daniele Mosca and Carlo Lombardoni last week: the three confirmed that other bribes for the supply of were paid to the Ministry of Justice through the administrator of a quasi-governmental agency.
1993	The Apple USA division of Apple Inc yesterday cut suggested retail prices in the US on the Apple Color Printer by 29% to $1,660 and the Apple Personal LaserWriter NTR, also 29% to $1,180.
1993	As expected (CI No 2,140), Digital Equipment Corp yesterday unveiled its 150MHz Alpha personal , the DECpc AXP/150, designed to run Microsoft Corp Windows NT, plus two ‘Pentium ready’ Intel Corp 80486-based machines, models DECpc DT and DECpc MTE.
1993	In an attempt to streamline its personal range, DEC plans to market the new Alpha and Pentium systems in parallel, with both offered at similar price points and configurations.
1993	The DECpc AXP/150 and DECpc 560 ST personal will also support Intel Corp's Pentium Peripheral Connect Interface bus specification, which enables NT applications running in either environment to interoperate.
1993	It is also associating with two local companies, Bhekisizwe Systems Pty Ltd and Olivetti Information Technology Pty Ltd.
1993	Talks between Job's NeXT Inc and Hewlett-Packard date back to the beginning of the year (CI No 2,080), and the two are now teaming to offer a bundled range of NeXT software on Hewlett-Packard systems, targeted at the financial services industry, under the name Object Enterprise.
1993	ASSOCIATES SHIPS CA-UNICENTER FOR HP-UX
1993	Islandia, New York-based Associates Inc will begin delivering CA-Unicenter, its systems management product for client-server environments, on Hewlett-Packard Co HP 9000 Series 800 and 700 machines this week.
1993	Associates is also converting a string of proprietary software for Unix including: Masterpiece Financials, its decision support and accounting software; SuperProject, project management tool; DataCom relational database and Telon, its own application development environment.
1993	Said to offer 99.87% accuracy, it runs under Microsoft Corp Windows 3.1 on any IBM-compatible personal .
1993	This is linked to Phonelink's own via the group's own ‘fast connect’ modem on the public telephone network; via BT's ISDN network; or via BT's Global Service Network.
1993	IBM UK Ltd has agreed in principle to pre-load Tel-Me on all its personal ‘of an agreed specification’ and will design and build a specific machine to incorporate the necessary communications devices, and to distribute Tel-Me in the UK.
1993	Dell Corp has reported first quarter net profits down 48.5% at $10.2m, on turnover that rose 83.6% at $672.4m; net per share fell 52% at $0.25.
1993	Dell Corp is blaming problems with its notebook for a shock halving of first quarter profits (figures, page five), and warns that the second quarter will be no better,and that its target of $3.30 a share for the year is now out of reach: the shares plunged $10 to $22.125 before the market opened yesterday: ‘Basically, the notebooks are going to have a negative effect on earnings per share in the next two quarters,’ chairman Michael Dell told Reuter — adding that Dell is taking steps to improve its notebook business by setting up joint development opportunities with new partners and that a partnership with an ‘electronics and communications provider’was already in place,although he did not name it.
1993	Fujitsu's other Sparc system-building concern, the non-computer company, HaL Systems Inc, was involved in the discussions but will play no part in the initial effort as it focused exclusively on 64-bit Sparc development.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp and Fujitsu Microelectronics Inc have teamed to design the next-generation highly-integrated, cheap Sparc for low-cost desktop and server, portable and high-end embedded markets; the first microSparc II is a three-level metal design in 0.5 micron CMOS due to sample late 1993.
1993	AS YOU WERE: TANDY WILL NOW SELL PERSONAL ARM TO AST
1993	AST Research Inc is determined to come out as one of the winners in the bitter battle for share in the personal market, and yesterday it announced that rather than let the business go in the spin-off of the TE Electronics manufacturing operations, it had made an offer for Tandy Corp's personal manufacturing operations, which had been accepted.
1993	The Tandy assets to be bought include GRiD Systems Inc, Tandy-GRiD Europe and the manufacturing plants in Texas and Scotland.
1993	Tivoli's aim is to cut the cost and complexity of managing heterogeneous distributed environments which include Unix systems and personal .
1993	Solaris x86 for Intel Corp architectures will move to release 2.2 later this year — from 2.1 now — Sun admits only to Compaq Corp and AST Research Inc having taken the release for their iAPX-86 multiprocessors.
1993	Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft Corp does not want to see any part of the digital automation process that is not touched by Windows, and the company has developed a specification for integrated telephony for the MS-DOS personal , with which, needless to say, it is aiming to set the industry-standard.
1993	Called Windows Telephony, Microsoft's Applications Programming Interface has won the support of around 40 switch manufacturers, network providers and personal and software suppliers.
1993	It is initially intended for desktop personal , although Microsoft says it will later be extended to server environments and other computing systems.
1993	Meanwhile vendors and users including Aspect Telecommunications Inc, Envoy Systems Inc, Ericsson, IBM Corp and Logica Plc have formed a group called the Association of Telephone Integration Users & Suppliers or ACTIUS.
1993	IBM SHOWS OFF PERSONAL YOU ORDER ABOUT
1993	The company says its researchers took six months to extend the concept from a client-server system — as shown at the last Comdex event — to a personal .
1993	Once we have mastered a keyboard, most of us flinch at the idea of having to write a lot of stuff out in longhand, but there are still poor benighted souls that find the keyboard impossible to master, and for their benefit, Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc Lotus Development Corp, General Magic Inc, Go Corp and Slate Corp came together at Comdex to announce Jot 1.0, a standard that they hope will enhance the use of pen-based .
1993	The concept they are promoting is that of ‘electronic ink’— a magic ingredient that will enable scribbles written on one pen to be used by other systems, even those without pen-aware technology.
1993	The Jot 1.0 specification is designed to enable applications to share handwritten notes, sketches, signatures and other free-form data across the generality of from hand-held devices to mainframes, so that if someone scrawls a note and sends it over a modem, it will turn up at the other end as handwriting, regardless of the sending and receiving machines, provided only that they both implement Jot 1.0.
1993	Operations it makes possible include displaying and scaling ink for a range of applications and devices from palm- to wall-size, translating ink to other formats, deferring handwriting translation, compressing ink and analysing ink for content.
1993	The IntelliServer connects directly to a TCP/IP Ethernet using BNC or AUI connectors and is designed to provide a cost-effective means of connecting serial printers, modems, personal running terminal emulators, terminals, and high-speed serial X terminals to a local net.
1993	News that the US Federal Communications Commission's Advisory Committee on Advanced Television Service, is now to review a single digital high definition television standard proposed by a a Grand Alliance of all four contending consortia is raising hopes that by mid-decade, all the key technologies and infrastructures will be in place for a full-scale merging of television and technology.
1993	Both these design aspects are important for the interoperability of television with , telecommunications and other media and applications.
1993	Hewlett-Packard is beginning to look increasingly like a printer company that also makes and sells , so much of the focus was on printers, with Douglas Carnahan, vice-president and general manager of the printing systems group saying that the company hopes to beat the industry's compound annual growth rate in sales dollars in the printer market over the next five years.
1993	On the personal business, Platt said the company is ‘gaining a lot of recognition’ in what he called a ‘ruthless’business, adding that cost-cutting had improved profitability, ‘but it is not quite where we want it to be.’
1993	On the systems business, Platt said orders for Unix systems grew more than 40% compared to the previous quarter's level.
1993	Although full-year profits at futures and options bureau and software specialist Rolfe & Nolan Services Plc were hit by losses from US counterpart Brokerage Systems Inc, the rest of the group achieved ‘record’ growth.
1993	Rolfe & Nolan Services Plc has reported net profits for the year to February 28 up 13% at £998,000, on turnover that rose 66.7% to £11.2m.
1993	Responding to concerns raised by Dell Corp's fiscal first quarter report (CI No 2,176), Compaq Corp says it looks forward to reporting a strong second quarter: ‘With the first signs of economic recovery in Europe and the surge in demand generated by the introductions of our powerful new 486SL-based Compaq Contura and Compaq LTE Lite notebook families in March and this month, we see a strong second quarter,’ it said.
1993	Next step for Oracle Corp founder Larry Ellison is to join the board of NeXT Inc, alongside Daniel Case III, president and co-chief executive of Hambrecht & Quist Group Inc; they join Steve Jobs and Keiichi Uno of Canon Inc.
1993	Shares in Acorn Group Plc, which stood at 38 pence at the start of the year, put on 29 pence at 112 pence on the strength of its 46%-owned affiliate Advanced RISC Machines Ltd's significant agreement with Texas Instruments Inc (CI No 2,175) before settling back sixpence on Tuesday to close at 106p.
1993	NeXT Inc, Redwood City, says Digital Equipment Corp, Compaq Corp and NCR Corp are to offer NeXTstep for Intel processors on some of their 80486-based personal , pre-installed or bundled by reseller organisations.
1993	The Kaleida Labs Inc joint venture of IBM Corp and Apple Inc has won the support of Hitachi Ltd, Toshiba Corp and Mitsubishi Electric Corp for its ScriptX format; Creative Technology Ltd, parent of Creative Labs Inc, is also a charter member of the alliance — membership gives priority access to the technology and support services for three years, but no equity stakes.
1993	Compaq Corp says it is the first major personal manufacturer to receive a 1993-1994 US General Services Administration Schedule contract, which runs to March 31 1994 and makes it easier for the federal government to buy Compaq products at pre-set prices.
1993	And applications built with Serius technology are portable between Apple Inc Macintosh and Microsoft Corp Windows environments.
1993	The move comes as part of IBM's evolving relationship with the Systems Division of Harris Corp.
1993	It is based on Unix Labs's System V.4.2 MP and will offer B2-level security capabilities as defined by the US National Security Center.
1993	Why not add network support so that if you plug an extra personal into the local network, everyone's applications will automatically run a bit faster (and they already run very quickly indeed)?
1993	Moreover Tao claims to have found substantial funding and board-level interest from some of the biggest Japanese and electronics companies, the identities of which will be announced this summer.
1993	Chris Hinsley, Tao Systems chief executive and the operating system's architect claims without a blush that the Japanese industry will completely steam-roll the US and Europeans, and that Taos will be the fuel.
1993	Chris Hinsley started off as a successful commercial author of arcade games for home , and many of Taos's concepts spring from his original need to produce code that would transfer easily between a plethora of machines.
1993	A personal with a single 66MHz 80486 will render a broadcast quality, full screen, complex piece of ray-tracing in less than a minute.
1993	This will slot into a personal and enable the 80486 and the MIPS processors run code cooperatively, bringing our same ray trace example down to less than 10 seconds.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is now distributing JSB Systems Ltd's MultiView Mascot with its DECadvantage application environment.
1993	It supports multi-user terminals as well as personal client and Unix server configurations.
1993	Furthermore the company is claiming to have the market to itself and that Workbench is the first tool set specifically aimed at mainframe maintenance to run on personal .
1993	OnLine 6.0 is scheduled to ship by the end of year and will be available on Sun Microsystems Inc, IBM Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co and Sequent Systems Inc systems.
1993	Patrol Software Inc has put some new systems management software up on Hewlett-Packard Co, IBM Corp, Sequent Systems Inc, Silicon Graphics Inc and Sun Microsystems Inc systems.
1993	Not only did the get them right but Palmer didn't slow his delivery at all, and the printed word appeared a fraction of a second later.
1993	The version that Palmer played with has a vocabulary of 2,500 words, very small by human standards, though enough for application-specific work such as booking airline tickets, or controlling front ends.
1993	But the real significance of the demonstration is that for the first time high-powered personal are capable of keeping up with normal speech without…the…speaker…doing…this.
1993	At Comdex, a two year old Ojai, California-based company, Musitek Inc, was showing its first product, which it claims has cracked the problem on a personal .
1993	ICL already has a 50-strong North American sales team which mainly sells its personal hardware.
1993	As well as milking the 715/33 for all its worth, Hewlett-Packard says it remains hard at work on developing what it says will be an Apple Inc Mac-like Unix environment for the thing, in addition to the on-board multimedia hardware it is supposed to incorporate.
1993	SunSolutions, Sun Microsystems Inc's desktop conferencing unit has launched version 1.1 of its ShowMe white board system for Sparc systems.
1993	Advanced Communications Inc, Eicon Technology Inc, General Datacomm Industries Inc, Hughes Network Systems, Madge Networks Ltd, Newbridge Networks Inc and Olicom USA Inc are also said to have expressed interest in joining.
1993	Fujitsu attributed its loss to the sluggish global economy, but the company has no hit products in the market now that mainframes have gone ex-growth, it is only embarking on building a mid-range Unix business in Japan, in part with machines made by its ICL Plc affiliate and by Sun Microsystems Inc, and its personal business labours in the shadow of that of NEC Corp.
1993	AST Research Inc's agreement to buy Tandy Corp's personal manufacturing business will shoot the Irvine, California company up to fourth place in the US market ahead of Dell Corp and behind Apple Inc, IBM Corp and Compaq Corp — but why should anyone want to buy a personal manufacturer — after all no-one came in for bankrupt Everex Systems Inc: the answer is that the deal includes full access to Tandy's retail stores — AST will supply machines to be sold under the Tandy brand name; the plant in Scotland is also an attraction.
1993	Compaq Corp took the lead in the European portable personal market in the first quarter of 1993 according to Dataquest figures which give Compaq 22% by value and 17.5% by volume, and the manufacturer says that shipments in the period were up 89% on the first quarter of 1992, growing four times the rate of the market, which expanded 21% — and those figures reveal the reason that Dell Corp has stumbled badly in laptops and notebooks: buyers are going for the higher cost 80486-based machines that abound in Compaq's line, while Dell's product emphasises low-price 80386SX-based machines.
1993	In North America, Compaq Corp's portables market share grew 65%, reaching 17.6% for the first quarter, up from its 11.4% year-end market share, the company said.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and Eastman Kodak Co have joined forces to market a fully integrated document image management system: Kodak will supply its range of document scanners, and Olivetti will provide hardware plus document management software; this comprises its own IBIsys, Integrated Business and Information System, which integrates applications at both the client and server level, enabling transparent communications via a Unix host — it provides object-oriented filing, electronic mail, diary and administration services, such as printing and word processing; also included as part of the package, is Wimbledon, London-based Integrated Documatic Inc's Imsoft document image processing software, and Costa Mesa, California-based Filenet Corp's optical document store and retrieve and WorkFlo software; Kodak is also offering Olivetti customers image capture bureau services; the document image management system is available now, price dependent on configuration.
1993	Val Biancardi, social services shop steward, said a new system, developed to do assessments, had crashed with no back-up system.
1993	Alix Parlour, chief lawyer in Asia for Microsoft, a software company, thinks her company may be losing $150m a year in potential sales in Asia.
1993	The White House may have all the wizardry in the world, but it lacked the old-fashioned political skills required to get a $16 billion ‘stimulus’ package through the Senate.
1993	Michael O'Neil, the project's manager, concluded that Bow Valley's information systems, based on ageing mainframe , prevented data from crossing functional and divisional boundaries.
1993	At the heart of that strategy was the replacement of the company's mainframe with networks of high-powered desktop workstations.
1993	As part of a plan to create a ‘new social infrastructure’, the government said it would buy 330,000 personal between now and 1996 for use in state schools.
1993	Leading the effort has been Tadahiro Sekimoto, chairman of NEC, Japan's fourth biggest company.
1993	It fears that the ¥200 billion school project will amount to little more than a bail-out of struggling Japanese makers — such as NEC, which made its first ever consolidated loss, of ¥44 billion, in the year to March.
1993	Personal are NEC's most profitable product.
1993	Thanks to recession, total domestic sales of personal fell by 8% in the year to March.
1993	Battered by Apple, Compaq and Dell, NEC belatedly announced big price cuts in February, but its still sell for about ¥150,000 more than those of its foreign competitors.
1993	The average Japanese secondary school has 13 ; the average elementary school just four.
1993	and parts are America's second-biggest manufactured export to Japan, after aircraft.
1993	Moreover, America's industry is just the sort of high-skill, high-wage industry Mr Clinton says he wants to promote.
1993	The reason firms should now re-engineer their businesses, argues Mr Hammer, is that rapid advances in , and their plummeting price, have made such a back-to-basics attitude possible.
1993	But in just a few years have made many specialised tasks obsolete, enabling one person not only to do the work of many, but to do many different jobs at once.
1993	Too many companies, says Mr Hammer, have used to automate existing tasks and procedures, when what firms should have done is to obliterate them.
1993	The clerk at the receiving dock, using a to reconcile deliveries with orders instantly, accepts goods on his own authority and issues payment.
1993	But Mr Hammer claims that the opportunities created by represent such a dramatic break with the past that they justify managers rethinking their entire business.
1993	When first appeared in offices in the late 1970s, they were used as glorified typewriters by secretaries.
1993	Now millions of managers and other professionals, especially in America, use , voice-mail and faxes themselves, wiping out the need for typing pools, secretaries and telephone operators.
1993	On the other hand, there is a widespread frustration among companies that the billions invested in during the past decade have failed to produce bigger productivity gains.
1993	Some of the most startlingly successful companies of the past decade, such as Wal-Mart and Dell , are those which examined the operations of their industry's leading firms, and decided to do things completely differently with the help of .
1993	Dell became one of the world's largest PC companies by using to avoid an expensive dealer network or salesforce and sell directly to consumers.
1993	Armed with , the procurement department did its job much faster, reports Larry Skinner, the company's chief of re-engineering, but it actually took longer for anyone in TI to purchase supplies because filling out all the forms demanded by the procurement department had become so complicated.
1993	Today ‘caseworkers’ using see every purchase order through to completion.
1993	Paradoxically, one of the biggest, says Thomas Davenport, a management consultant with Ernst & Young and one of the earliest advocates of re-engineering, is a company's existing system, which can be so complex and yet so central to the firm's business that it is too expensive and too risky to scrap entirely (though not always — see box).
1993	But the firm's managers cannot face the ‘nightmare’ of replacing its vast system and related software with something new and untested.
1993	Louis Gerstner, the new head of IBM, told aggrieved shareholders he would do everything to restore the giant to health.
1993	The fact is that most stuff is still designed for people who like playing with technology.
1993	Mr Outcalt believes that Nordstrom's shoppers — typically bright, successful types who seem to spend nearly every waking hour with cellular telephones, laptop and videos — will accept Nordstrom-style television shopping as readily as they now use bank debit cards to buy their groceries.
1993	The number of personal customers has fallen by 8%, following problems with a new kind of account, while a glitch has persuaded dozens of big fund managers to take their business elsewhere.
1993	Striking the right balance is getting harder all the time as banking grows devilishly complicated, crossing borders and time-zones, spawning new products, using to bewitch and bewilder.
1993	Last year, the proportion of pupils getting help with their fees rose above 25% as schools switched from buying new labs to bailing out hard-up parents.
1993	software
1993	The speed with which personal-computer users have abandoned programs based on the clunky old MS-DOS operating system — the internal software used to make personal tick — for prettier versions based on Windows has taken even the nimblest software firms by surprise.
1993	Most new users find the Windows software, which has friendly picture-book instructions rather than arcane codes, already loaded on their when they buy them.
1993	The red background then provides a reference point which allows the to correct for angle and distance.
1993	The turns its interpretation of what is going on into a television picture — healthy tissue is coloured green, tumours show up red.
1993	To find them reliably you must resort, once again, to a .
1993	But even the needs a little help.
1993	But are not so co-operative.
1993	They need every bit of information that they can lay their chips on, so Xillix had to redesign the video camera with which the looks down its microscope.
1993	If, using this enhanced image, the detects signs of cancer, a patient can be recommended for bronchoscopy to determine exactly where the tumour is.
1993	WRITERS of science fiction love the idea that might one day have souls.
1993	But it now looks as though something similar can happen in a failing .
1993	Artificial neural networks are a special type of processor.
1993	These elements (the equivalent of nerve cells) may be tangible silicon chips or they may exist only in the cyberspace of a working program.
1993	Destroying the connections in a tends to isolate these colonies and leave them vulnerable to stimulation by spurious signals.
1993	Lou Gerstner, the new boss of IBM, hired Jerry York, Chrysler's chief financial officer and respected cost-cutter, to the same (vacant) post at the loss-making giant.
1993	Throw in the joker of addictions which come not in syringes or cigarettes, but in casinos and cartridges, and you have a fine arena for combat between libertarians and puritans.
1993	scientists are also in short supply.
1993	The Reform of Heisei prefers interfacing.
1993	The Reform of Heisei also holds policy discussions by .
1993	Members are invited to log on to their and call up the Heisei menu.
1993	Rather than invest hugely in technology, the Halifax used cheap and cheerful systems to centralise information-gathering and to design easy-to-administer products.
1993	are belatedly replacing thousands of clerical staff and middle managers.
1993	Once one of the world's most profitable firms, Big Blue last year tumbled to a record-breaking $1 billion loss as it struggled to keep up with technical change, plummeting prices and a wave of new competition in the market.
1993	Big Blue grew into the world's biggest company by dominating the market for big mainframe in the 1960s and 1970s.
1993	Personal have turned that cosy world on its head.
1993	And thousands of start-up firms have poured into the market.
1993	In an industry where proprietary technical standards are all but history, the cradle-to-grave customer loyalty on which IBM could once depend (and often enforce) is also a thing of the past: today's users buy from the best, not the biggest.
1993	He is being wooed by three counter-arguments: first, that when it comes to big, company-wide systems, customers still prefer to buy everything from a single, proven supplier; second, that mainframes will remain at the heart of many of tomorrow's systems, in which a network of PCs will be served by a central processor; and third, that IBM is moving away from being hardware-dominated to become, increasingly, a one-stop-shop for consultancy and services.
1993	Tickets could be bought in banks and shops, and booked long in advance on a , just like aircraft tickets.
1993	When foreign companies like Intel, a maker of chips, arrived in Penang 20 years ago, they concentrated on simple assembly work.
1993	The province's industrial parks offer a roll-call of multinational electronics and firms: Motorola, Hitachi, Philips, Thomson and Sony.
1993	Both have moved into advanced manufacturing and specialise in supplying parts for the industry.
1993	And then there's this other bloke, wizard, Texan, big ears, worth $1 billion plus change.
1993	No asphalt and concrete monster this: instead, a national network using digital and fibre-optic technology to turn the humble television into an interactive medium for everything from video conferencing to home-shopping to movies-on-demand, games and databases.
1993	Last year talks with IBM fell apart as the behemoth's own fortunes collapsed.
1993	And Mr Levin, who has fashioned a complex web of small joint ventures with companies such as Silicon Graphics, a manufacturer, has also been careful not to rule out deals with bigger partners.
1993	Among other things, BA staff tried to poach passengers from their tiny rival by hacking into Virgin's .
1993	Certainly it is in the private sector, where the only bribe that counts is low prices, where fierce competition and price wars have been wreaking havoc among Europe's surviving makers.
1993	Digital's commitment is one of the strongest cards in Mr De Benedetti's hand when he claims that Olivetti will be among the survivors of the current shake-out in the industry.
1993	IN THE days when IBM was still the unchallenged ruler of the universe, Bill Gates, chairman and co-founder of Microsoft, was fond of saying that he wanted his firm to become the Big Blue of software.
1993	It is not only technology that is altering, but the whole nature of the industry.
1993	In 1980, the giant turned up on Mr Gates's doorstep seeking an operating system (the software that tells a 's electronic circuits how to work as a ) for its forthcoming personal .
1993	Crucially, the deal did not bar Mr Gates from selling to other makers.
1993	To aid sales of his systems, he encouraged other software companies to develop applications programs (which tell the how to work as a word processor, spreadsheet, database manager and the like) for use with them.
1993	Their widespread success convinced all but the bravest makers (notably Apple, though even it is now seeking to make its machines compatible with Windows) to join the DOS and Windows club.
1993	Its 25% net margin is bettered in the industry only by Intel, the world's biggest micro-processor maker.
1993	Changes in the market, and in Microsoft's own activities, are set to make Mr Gates's firm look a lot less unassailable.
1993	Its operating software costs almost nothing to market and sell; makers hammer on Microsoft's door to buy the stuff.
1993	Eighteen months ago, most applications software for personal cost over $100 a throw.
1993	Unix is a powerful operating system used on many mainframe , and is in theory ideal for use on big networks.
1993	That is one reason why Microsoft reckons Windows NT can clean up: on the screen, despite 4m lines of wholly new code, NT will appear just like friendly old pre-NT Windows.
1993	Whole companies depend on the networks that it is designed to control.
1993	He has often argued that one of Microsoft's key competitive advantages is precisely that his firm is not like the old giants, offering customers everything from chips and to software and service contracts.
1993	In essence, software plays the role of an electronic messenger: it delivers information, manipulating it as desired, to users.
1993	He envisages a none-too-distant future in which information of every kind will be delivered, via fibre-optic cable and wire-less networks, to tiny contained in telephones, fax machines, photocopiers, television sets, printers and ‘personal digital assistants’(PDAs — wallet-sized combinations of electronic notebook, fax and cell-phone).
1993	Other big Japanese consumer-electronics companies, such as Sharp, Casio, Sega and Nintendo, are also showing interest in producing gadgets to profit from the blurring of boundaries between TV, telecoms and .
1993	Even in Greece, most transactions of this sort are nowadays recorded on receipts that memorise, and the tax inspector can therefore poke his nose into.
1993	In the 1960s and 1970s experts from manufacturing and other industries showed banks how to turn a chain of paper into a string of digits.
1993	But have no fear: the raft has a , modern means of communication, and an exclusive deal with the The Times of London.
1993	The numerous non-manufacturing subsidiaries (such as travel agencies, restaurants and software firms) that were set up in the late 1980s are most vulnerable.
1993	workstations
1993	SULTRY, sinewy and sophisticated, workstations have been used to create everything from 3-D molecular models to the psychopathic cyborg in ‘Terminator 2’.
1993	All this, says Michael Dell, chairman of Dell , means ‘workstation makers are in real, serious trouble.’
1993	So the company's SunSelect subsidiary has launched its Wabi software package, which allows Unix-based to run Windows applications software without the need for a Windows operating system.
1993	Japan and Europe are now likely to adopt some form of the American system, which will employ digital signals similar to those used by .
1993	The FCC competition has helped to concentrate the minds of everyone in the broadcast industry on the digital technology which has always been employed by the industry.
1993	The merging of computing and television — the much-vaunted ‘multimedia’— which digital technology will also make possible, could produce a wave of startling new products from the and cable-TV industries.
1993	Taurus, a project that was to have delivered paperless share settlement, was scrapped in March after five years' work and a £400m ($150m) outlay by the City.
1993	Technology has been a particular poser: institutions like Lloyd's have been slow to exploit .
1993	The unit can receive calls, transmit faxes or be used by personal to tap into remote data banks — all for $5.50 a minute.
1993	Digital strangled their analogue brethren at birth.
1993	Germany is the country with the largest number of digital subscribers (around 400,000), and there are signs that the spill-over from their conversations may be confusing other electrical equipment, from CD players to .
1993	The promised ‘bells and whistles’ that digitisation of cellular telecoms would allow — reliable mobile faxes, intelligent modems, interactive paging systems and so on— are being postponed into the late 1990s.
1993	According to Kmart's senior management, it also helps to reassure employees in each of the company's 2,300 discount stores that they are the masters of Kmart's universe, not its servants.
1993	Bar codes scanned at the check-out counters of Kmart's new store at Auburn Hills, near Detroit, for example, are not just recorded in the store's point-of-sales to keep the finances straight.
1993	Troy logs the information for research purposes, then retransmits it to an inventory distribution centre, where more decide what restocking is needed at Auburn Hills.
1993	A slump in revenues sent Fujitsu, a Japanese electronics company, into a pre-tax loss of ¥16.2 billion ($150m) in 1992–93, its first-ever loss.
1993	Mr Töpfer has threatened to apply a similar scheme to car manufacturers and to the makers of electronic goods, such as and television sets.
1993	graphics docking of a single repressor dimer to ideal B-form DNA in the correct orientation results in a loss of static solvent-accessible surface of 208  2 , but the bending of the DNA in the observed structure of the complex raises this to 648  2 .
1993	Accordingly, difference and Sim-weighted Fourier maps phased from the protein model were calculated at 20–4Å resolution, and inspected using the graphics program FRODO.
1993	These theoretical analyses, tournaments, and laboratory experiments continue, with the answers depending on the extent to which future pay-offs are discounted, on the ensemble of strategies present in the group of players, on the degree to which strategies are deterministic or error-prone (for example, imperfect memories of opponents or of past events), and so on .
1993	Using an efficient program in which each lattice-site is represented as a pixel of the screen, we have explored the asymptotic behaviour of this system for various values of b , and with various initial proportions of C and D arranged randomly or regularly on an nxn lattice (n=20 and more).
1993	The e.p.s.ps were recorded on disk and their amplitudes measured using an automated routine that measured the average voltage difference between two zones, one in the pre-stimulus baseline period (avoing the stimulus artefact if necessary) and the other straddling the peak of the averaged.
1993	The locations of peaks in the amplitude histograms were determined visually, making use of an interactive routine.
1993	FIG. 2 Illustration of the Monte Carlo simulations performed to assess the likelihood that peaky histograms could have arisen by sampling error from an underlying smooth distribution.
1993	The absorbance spectra of individual receptors were measured with a modified dual-beam Liebman microspectrophotometer under control; the numerical apertures of the condenser and objective were 0.4 and 0.9, respectively.
1993	This region of dystrophin is known to bind actin in vitro and analysis identified two actinin-type actin-binding motifs at amino-acid positions 33–42 and 107–131 in DRP.
1993	The sequences were aligned with the aid of the program PILEUP (UWGCG); boxes enclose conserved residues and the consensus line indicates regions of exact homology.
1993	Cells were examined using a Biorad MRC 600 scanning confocal microscope equipped with an argon-xenon laser and printed from the using a Mitsubishi colour video copy processor.
1993	The animals' paths were tracked automatically using a hidden overhead videocamera connected to an image-analysis system and an Archimedes .
1993	The polygonal region of cortical layer IVc demarcated by the WGA-HRP injections was estimated from two-dimensional reconstructions of digitized serial sections.
1993	Randomized sequences of six phonologically dissimilar consonants were presented on a screen at the rate of 1 per second.
1993	Data were collected on crystals of selenomethionyl GH5 by rotations about the a and b axes, using an Enraf-Nonius FAST area detector and the program MADNES on beam-line X12C at the NSLS at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
1993	The pictures were generated by the program O.
1993	The figures were generated by the program MOLSCRIPT.
1993	The figures were generated by the program MOLSCRIPT.
1992	The workshop and home economics area were also impressive, and the school had three .
1991	The Governor and his staff have long recognized this and plans for two new courses, one in arts and crafts, the other on , are planned to start in 1990.
1991	Classification by , howsoever sophisticated the algorithm, is not appropriate.
1991	A successful field of trade training for prisoners is maintenance and utilization.
1991	At the time of writing, I understand that the training course has the highest rate of job placement for discharged prisoners of any vocational training programme in Texas prisons.
1992	ITV was allowed about seven hours a day when it started in 1955; and long before the growth of home , VCRs and video games in the 1980s, of course, the TV set had become a main focus (often the focus) of the living room.
1992	Crown's other interests were in TV production, graphics and business communications.
1992	It had interests also in graphics, TV and business film production and  services.
1992	In due course, colour, electronic news-gathering (an ITV innovation) and graphics would also add to the service.
1992	They were a substitute for lugging the TV around, and they also reflected the growth of video games and home .
1992	Statistical (and often ) analysis of the respondents' answers may  with luck reveal statistically significant trends in opinion, attitudes, or behaviour.
1992	This blurring of disciplinary frontiers is further encouraged when those few social anthropologists who can count, or have convenient access to mathematical aids, follow sociologists in succumbing to the lure of statistics and the .
1991	Some of the recent arguments in favour of involving in the task of investigating crime are that links or patterns which would otherwise have been missed or overlooked may be cap-tured.
1991	However, in practice, procedures are likely to produce as many links which are potentially misleading as links which are helpful.
1991	The enthusiasm among the media for assistance in solving sex crime is understandable but worrying.
1991	Operation Osprey has now been set up to tackle a fresh wave…a team of detectives are trying to establish a concrete link between the cases [Craven is talking against a backcloth of ].
1990	However, if preferences are understood merely as patterns of physical behaviour which tend towards certain results, then there would be no more moral reason for satisfying them than for assisting a carry out its programme when this was something undesired by any conscious being.
1991	There was nothing in the least bit objectionable about him, but he looked as though he had a where his heart was, and rushed home at night to plug in to a socket and recharge the batteries.
1991	He could have been a salesman.
1991	Everyone was believed to be glued to their screens from seven in the morning until nine at night.
1991	He could afford it — he was the owner of a successful software company.
1991	I switched on my , which gave me access to the prices of all the stocks listed, to price movements of the market as a whole and of individual sectors — a splendid toy, and an essential one.
1993	Clustering of RISC is seen as a promising new area of activity and Hewlett-Packard Co and Convex Corp are reportedly studying an expansion of their alliance to include the joint development of a clustered computing environment for HP's Precision Architecture RISC workstations.
1993	HP agreed to take a small stake in Convex earlier this year under an agreement that includes Convex using the PA RISC family in a massively-parallel system it is designing, and also involves each company taking some of the other's products on an OEM basis.
1993	THStyme currently distributes around 2,000 IBM PS/2-, Mac- and Sparcsystem-compatible line items, including configure-to-order personal , value added accessories, disk drives, scanners, memory and monitors — with cut-price, Russian-produced streamers and printers soon to be added to the product line.
1993	Reports have Dell Corp considering spinning its Unix work out into a standalone division or subsidiary: the company is now up to Issue 2.2 of its reprise of SVR4, one of the more robust implementations available for PCs and PC-class servers.
1993	In the UK, London-based Video Dynamics Ltd, has announced Sprint GXU, a display adapter for Intel Corp-based personal running Unix: the adapter is claimed to bring workstation graphics capabilities to a PC and costs $500.
1993	Ultimate Corp reports an order for a second large Sequoia Systems Inc fault-tolerant Unix machine from Moscow-based Almazjuvelir Export: the firm is to use a Motorola 68030-based Sequoia Model 300 2.2.2 system worth about $880,000 — and is paying in hard currency.
1993	Harrier Systems Ltd, Finchampstead, Berkshire, has been appointed sole UK distributor for Legato Systems Inc's Networker backup and storage solutions.
1993	According to Personal and the X Window System, the latest report from the X Business Group, it is the take-up of X by commercial customers that has caused the explosion, with database access expected to account for 32% of sales, mapping and GIS 16% and CASE 11%.
1993	The market leader in Japanese X-terminals is Japan Corp, with aggregate sales of 10,000 units.
1993	Japan 's X-terminals have to date been based on MC68020 and MC68030 technology, including two models of the Xface terminal with an electroluminescent screen.
1993	Sparcsystems were on display from a number of vendors: Ace K is the sales arm of MicroHelios Ltd of Osaka, which recently announced a Sparcstation 10-compatible machine under the name HelioStation 1000 — this adds to its current Sparc-based Heliostation 400 series and both machines are imported and sold under an agreement with Axil Technology Inc, of San Jose, California, a relatively new player in the compatible market; the prices are about 40% of the Nippon Sun retail price and the company looks to sell 1,500 of the things annually.
1993	Laptop workstations Brite-Lite (from RDI Corp of San Diego) and Tadpole (from Tadpole Technology of Cambridge, UK) are being distributed by Daishin Electric Co of Tokyo, which also carries a desktop compatible DSSUN Station II based on a 40MHz Sparc, built by US company EOS Technology Inc and released in Japan in October last year; the Tadpole machine just announced arrived at the Daishin booth on the first morning of the show; its beautiful active matrix thin film transistor colour screen, 256 colours, external VGA and Super VGA, manufactured by Sharp Corp attracted attention.
1993	Taiwanese Acer Group's Altos Systems has introduced two high-end multi-processing Unix system running version 2.0 of Santa Cruz Operation Inc's MPX multi-processing extensions on top of SCO Unix V.3.4.
1993	Altos systems are now distributed by Leeds-based Services Technology Ltd and Metrologie UK: Altos' relationship with Microvitec's Logitek plc came to an end a few months ago.
1993	Silicon Graphics Inc has signed a joint venture contract with five investors through its Hong Kong subsidiary to create Shenzhen Chess Co Ltd, which will manufacture Silicon Graphics' Iris Indigo RISC personal and develop applications for it in Shenzen Special Economic Zone, China.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc's personal integration unit, the Billerica, Massachusetts-based SunSelect, has launched NetWare SunLink for Sparc RISC systems, enabling Sun users to link up to Novell Inc NetWare-based MS-DOS, Windows and OS/2-based .
1993	SunSelect says it is aiming the long-promised software at personal users who want to integrate their existing Novell local area networks with Sun Sparc systems and those wishing to upgrade the capability of their Intel-based networks with the addition of a host Sparc system.
1993	SunSelect will push the software through Sun Microsystems Corp's distribution network initially — the parent hardware company will sell it too — but says it will build a channel of its own outlets in future.
1993	UK outlets include London-based Business Systems Group, Morse Ltd and Birmingham-based Specialist Centres Ltd.
1993	Computervision Corp so wants to put its sad ownership by Prime Inc behind it that it is remaking itself in the pure computer-aided design software image of the company Prime acquired as quickly as it can.
1993	SunSoft Inc is likely to announce that is finally ready to send out developers’ kits for its Solaris 2.0-on-Intel operating system to the personal manufacturers it has lined up.
1993	Trirex Systems Inc, Westport, Connecticut, will debut DocApprover — a network utility package that tracks and routes Email documents on NeXT — and AlertManager, a fault detection alarm for NeXT, Sun and HP systems.
1993	The company will also introduce an RS/6000 version of NetCon, its connectivity package that allows Novell Inc NetWare-based personal to access applications running on Unix servers and access files and printers.
1993	Campbell, California-based Specialix Inc, will debut its I/O 8+, eight-port intelligent input/output board for Unix-based personal systems — prices start at $500.
1993	Pencom Software Inc, Austin, Texas, will announce a new version of co-Xist, its X-Windows implementation for NeXT Inc boxes: the new version — which runs under NextStep 3.0 — supports Motif 1.2 and X11R5.
1993	Shared Financial Systems Inc, Dallas, Texas, will step beyond its traditional Stratus Inc market and reveal a version of its Shared on-line transaction processing software engine for IBM's RS/6000: the engine is an electronic payment application used by banks and other retailers.
1993	Cooperative was set up in 1989 by old hands from Tandem Inc, including VP of research Kim Worsencroft and CEO Dennis McEvoy, so Ellipse is inherently resilient to errors and failures.
1993	And, says the company, it has a joint marketing agreement with Hewlett-Packard in Germany, and in the US is working with both DEC and Motorola Systems in its quest to pick up on the expanding downsizing trend.
1993	Staying loyal to the MIPS RISC architecture, Concurrent Corp based in Oceanport, New Jersey, is to develop an R4000-based Unix real-time system for shipment next year.
1993	The University of Edinburgh has installed its seventh Meiko Scientific Ltd parallel — the latest is a 1GFLOPS Computing Surface MPP system worth £500,000 which comprises 12 Intel 80860 CPUs, each with 32Mb RAM.
1993	Plasma, a CASE tool for Cobol originally only available in Japanese from its developer, Applications Co, is now being offered in English, German and Chinese by Munich, Germany-based InterFace GmbH and its Hong Kong-based subsidiary: Plasma takes Cobol code as its input and automatically generates a graphical overview of it.
1993	Database technology, interoperability and network integration and open systems and industry standards are the key technological issues facing HP Unix and MPE users in the US, Canada and Mexico according to a survey of MIS managers by Interex, the International Association of Hewlett-Packard Users, based upon 820 replies.
1993	Science Applications International Corp has finally introduced the ruggedised version of RDI Corp's BriteLite portable Sparc workstation, which was planned more than a year ago (UX 339).
1993	ASSOCIATES TEAMS WITH SUN FOR UNICENTER
1993	Associates International Inc president Charles Wang and Sun Microsystems Inc president Scott McNealy are to make a joint announcement today (Monday), and were keeping tight-lipped as we went to press.
1993	The NeXT Inc workstations it is reselling can be supported by CLARiiON over the network but not directly.
1993	This week UK, Cambridge-based IXI Ltd is going to confirm our months-old story that it's signed HaL Systems to license and bundle IXI's Motif-compliant desktop manager X.desktop on its anticipated 64-bit Sparc machines (UX No 388).
1993	Mountain View, California-based Ask Systems Inc has come out with Manman/X, a Unix version of its manufacturing business management system that operates in multiple hardware environments.
1993	SunSelect today markets SunPC software, a high-performance personal emulation package with optional hardware acceleration SBus board products that enable MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows applications to run on Sparc systems under Solaris operating at 80486 speed.
1993	Integrated Solutions Inc, Cambridge, Massachusetts, will this week announce a deal with Adobe Systems Inc to distribute Display PostScipt for Sun Microsystems Inc machines.
1993	POWERPC ANNOUNCEMENT ‘BY OCTOBER’— DELL ‘SEEKING DEAL’
1993	IBM Corp, Apple Inc and Motorola Inc are months ahead of schedule in producing the first fruits of their PowerPC RISC alliance, Associated Press reports.
1993	MacWeek also claims Dell Corp is close to licensing rights to the PowerPC chip and Taligent Pink Operating System: seems a little premature for the latter.
1993	The company says the Enterprise File Manager is particularly suited to supporting large distributed networks where diverse applications are run on disparate hardware, including the gamut from personal through workstations, minicomputers and mainframes to supercomputers.
1993	Built on Amdahl's UTS 2.1 Unix and new Amdahl UniTree Release 1.0 software, it also uses Network Systems Corp's NSC 7200 Network Controller, which is resold and supported by Amdahl in the US.
1993	From the central storage server, files can be accessed by any client offering TCP/IP and supporting either file transfer protocol.
1993	Menlo Park, California-based Objectivity Inc has developed a Kanji version of its object database management system in combination with Mitsui Corp and the Osaka Gas Information System Research Institute: it's currently in beta and will become available on HP 9000s and Sparcstations next month.
1993	Now Reseller News contributes some technical concerns bedevilling SCO over SVR4.2: seems SCO is bothered by the fact that the kernel is split into three separate trees: desktop, enhanced security and MP.
1993	Piol also foresees the advent of Windows NT creating a serious discontinuity in the business with Intel under increasing pressure from Microsoft's shift to other platforms and software providers forced to choose what end of the market to support.
1993	He is responsible for implementing the Open Software Foundation's technologies at DEC though oddly enough he was a founder of Unix International while at Prime Inc.
1993	In the US, SunExpress sells some systems on behalf of the Sun Microsystems Corp hardware business, to the education market for example.
1993	The network unit, used in conjunction with NewsPrint software, will be accessible by any including Apple Macs and personal , prints on paper up to 11″ x 17″ and holds 500 sheets, an initial capacity due to be expanded early next year when SunPics rolls out a sheet feeder.
1993	DEFS, for Data Encryption File System, was designed to provide security for transportable .
1993	It's said to eliminate the I/O bottleneck evident in many with high powered CPUs, and resulted in an 80% to 100% performance improvement when running the SPEC Consortium's SDET benchmark.
1993	New York-based software house AFIC Inc will have a set of utilities for distributed databases at the Show: Multi Server Option (MSO), Quick Dump and Last.
1993	Meanwhile, Pencom's software operation says its co-Xist X-Windows development environment for NeXT (UX No 402), is out on October 15 and costs from $420 for a run-time.
1993	Solbourne Corp is getting ready to announce its line of Texas Instruments Inc Viking-based Series 6 symmetric multi-processors, with volume deliveries scheduled for November.
1993	Remember too Apple Inc's own A/UX doesn't run on the Powerbook and Tenon will let you run Mac applications too.
1993	Fleeing Momenta International Inc, where he was briefly chief executive officer, Apple Inc's erstwhile chief operations officer Delbert Yocam has gone to Tektronix Inc as president and chief operations officer.
1993	Quoting reseller sources briefed by the company, Reseller News is looking for Sun to phase out the ELC and Sparcstation 2 to make room for new Tsunami-run IPCs and IPXs.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc and Associates International Inc duly announced their alliance last week (UX No 403), saying that CA-Unicenter will be fully available on Sun hardware within nine to 12 months.
1993	OSF chief David Tory, of course, originally came from Associates.
1993	Intel Corp's Scientific Division is expected to be first to market in December, with an installation at Oak Ridge National Laboratories in Tennessee.
1993	Encore Corp, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, introduced a new high end series of Infinity 90 minisupercomputers to its existing Motorola Inc 88000 RISC-based line.
1993	With from 35 MIPS to 70,000 MIPS performance the Infinity 90 uses the reflective (shared) memory technology that Encore derived from its Gould acquisition in 1988.
1993	Solbourne Inc, following its grim decision earlier this year to pull the plug on its direct sales European operations,(UX No 396), has appointed Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire-based, International Ltd to distribute its wares in the UK.
1993	Canadian firm Consensys Inc, Markham, Ontario since 1985, a vendor of intelligent input/output cards, is laying claim to the first shipments of USL Unix SVR4.2 Destiny shrink-wrapped binary operating systems for Intel iAPX-86 architectures.
1993	UK-based, Beckenham, Kent-based Fernhart Services Ltd has announced TSMDesk, the first of its new range of Total Service Management products.
1993	The panels can be used as a visual communication system for stricken users when systems fail.
1993	Tandem Inc has extended its fault-tolerant Unix line with a new release of its NonStop-UX operating system and a new CM-1300 system in its Integrity line of MIPS Technologies R-series RISC-based machines.
1993	It runs on NCR's System 3000 family of general purpose and compatibles.
1993	Stratus Inc now has the only Asian versions of Jyacc's Application Manager JAM NLS for screen development, priced from $6,000: It's been localised for Korea with Hangul, Japan with Kanji and Katakana and China with traditional and simplified Chinese characters.
1993	Others queuing to re-submit proprietary system software technologies for XPG3 branding apparently include Hewlett-Packard Co with MPE, Apple Inc for System 7 and Tandem Inc with Guardian.
1993	Other support for XPG4 came from Amdahl Corp, DEC, Santa Cruz Operation Inc — which says it will deliver an XPG4 version of Open Desktop in the first quarter of next year — Mortice Kern Systems Inc, Sequent Systems Inc, IBM Corp, Groupe Bull SA, HP and Uniplex Ltd — which also promised XPG4 compliance at the beginning of next year.
1993	To mark the anniversary of the IBM Corp/Apple Inc/Motorola Inc alliance one year ago (UX No 354), IBM and Motorola announced last week that they had completed the design and fabrication of their first complete PowerPC RISC chip.
1993	NeXT Inc has been banging the drum for its forthcoming NeXTstep 486 object-oriented operating environment for 80486-based personal , reporting that Chrysler Financial, a wholly owned subsidiary of Chrysler Corp, will buy 2,500 copies of NeXTstep 486.
1993	NeXT says it also has a $3m contract for 400 NeXTstation over the next 18 months from Mobil Oil Corp's Mobil Sales & Supply Corp, which wants them to serve as traders' workstations.
1993	Sources say SunPics was ‘dragged kicking and screaming’ into the brand new Sun Microsystems Inc and Adobe Systems Inc alliance,(UX No 404), orchestrated by SunSoft Inc president Ed Zander, one of the first of the Sun mafia to come to grips with the slippery notion of standards — prodded no doubt by the coming onslaught of Microsoft Corp's Windows NT.
1993	Sunnyvale, California-based MasPar Corp will this week debut its second generation massively parallel system, the MP-2, claiming it delivers up to five times the performance of its existing MP-1.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has bought the French and German subsidiaries of Leasametric, which leases personal , workstations and test instruments, according to La Tribune de l'Expansion.
1993	Associates International Inc has just about run out of available US software products companies to snap up, and now it has crossed the Atlantic, making landfall in Dublin, where it has bought the assets of C++ object-oriented C specialist Glockenspiel Ltd.
1993	The new HP 9000 Models 745i and 747i industrial workstations and HP 9000 Model 742rt board systems are based on the 50MHz version of the Precision Architecture 7100 RISC.
1993	The HP 9000 Model 742rt board is a real-time system for HP-RT 1.0 and is compatible with Series 700 workstations and Series 800 servers for cross-development.
1993	The real-time board is presumably intended to supersede the company's HP1000 technical and industrial minis, though it doesn't say so.
1993	In its initial guise, XPG4 has 22 components — the smallest brandable entities in XPG4 — falling into seven technology areas: operating system and languages, data management, user interface (X-Windows and terminal interfaces), general, mainframe and personal interworking and media formats.
1993	Each component is additionally defined — where appropriate — by attributes that specify its relationship to the human interface, interchange formats, portability, interfaces and communications protocols.
1993	X/Open expects the likes of Sequent Systems Inc and Tandem Inc to take advantage of membership at this level to influence specifications, for example, on commercial multi-processing and fault tolerance.
1993	The Santa Cruz Operation Inc is sidling up even closer to Compaq Corp, following the signing of a worldwide OEM agreement which will see Compaq putting all SCO products through its marketing channels for the first time.
1993	His first port of call after coming on board was to insure RDI's financing which meant going to the company's strategic partner, the Korean firm $380m-a-year TriGem Corp.
1993	Tolerance SA, Paris, has launched a range of fault tolerant plug-in boards for Unix-based Intel Corp 80486 systems.
1993	The company is hoping to cash in on a niche — fault-tolerant personal computing — that has been largely overlooked by traditional players like Tandem Inc and Stratus Inc, by offering low cost PC-based fault-tolerant systems to the market.
1993	From this week, as part of SunSoft Inc's Solaris for X86 Early Access Programme, and software companies will receive Solaris for X86 on a single compact disk with a suite of development tools and documentation.
1993	SunSoft also demonstrated its multi-processing capabilities on a Compaq Corp Systempro at Unix Expo.
1993	Employees at Echo Logic Inc, the AT&T-owned start-up, which is making it possible for Apple Inc to run Mac programs on PowerPCs (UX No 385), are reportedly negotiating with Mama to get a 20+% chunk of the company as sweat equity.
1993	Start-up Japanese consulting and systems integration firm, Open Technologies Corporation, run by the man who founded one of the country's largest Unix software developers, is going to be marketing and distributing Tenon Systems Inc's Mach-for-Macs exclusively.
1993	It will be helping with localisation and pushing it on Apple Inc's Power Book line.
1993	A year ago at Unix Expo time we said IBM Corp was interested in moving AIX on to PC platforms other than its own to dispel its proprietary air (UX No 359): true to the promise, Blue turned up at this year's Expo with AIX PS/2 Version 1.3 supporting non-Micro Channel boxes and running on Dell Corp, AST Research Inc and Compaq Corp.
1993	Compared to the Intel 486DX-50 currently used in a high-end personal , it delivers twice the MFLOPS capacity at less than 40% of the price.
1993	The SNA specification was developed co-operatively by Andrew Corp, Attachmate Inc, Logics Inc, Data Connection Inc, Digital Communications Associates Inc, Easel Corp, Eicon Technology Inc, FutureSoft Inc, IBM Corp, ICOT Inc, ICL Plc, Microsoft, MultiSoft Inc, NCR Corp, Network Software Associates Inc, Novell Inc, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, Systems Strategies Inc and Wall Data Inc.
1993	The company envisages person-to-person communicators that combine cellular phone, facsimile machine, modem and pen-based into a single portable communications unit, and says it will announce specific product plans by the end of the year.
1993	It is compatible with the Raster protocol, with Direct Exchange Format files, and all standard aided design graphics formats.
1993	Promoters are hoping the park will become the European centre for software development in multimedia, networking, graphics and simulation technology and will be offering low rents to start-ups along with access to platforms, databases and libraries.
1993	Intel Corp is convinced by the research that suggests that half of all personal could include multimedia capability by 1996, and according to PC Week, and as part of its campaign to keep the iAPX-86 clone fabricators at bay, the company is working on a new version of the 80486 that will incorporate its Digital Video Interactive technology on chip, enabling users to tap full-motion video capabilities without additional add-in chips or boards.
1993	London-based Unix specialist, UniSoft Ltd, enjoyed a strong period of growth around the time it was engaged in developing an operating system for Motorola Systems' Unix boxes in the late 1980s.
1993	It's also put together a rescue strategy for the 40 or so licencees of the former MIPS Systems Inc Risc/OS which will allow them to migrate over to Unix SVR4: the MIPS operating system is being retired by MIPS' new parent, Silicon Graphics Inc.
1993	Compaq Corp beefed up its server offerings last week with the dual-processor, 50MHz 80486-based Systempro/XL, claiming it to be ‘the world's fastest PC server’, along with a new line of low-cost ProSignia PC servers.
1993	The ill-fated Stirling, Central plant closed by Wang Laboratories Inc and taken over three years ago by Compaq Corp as a repair and service centre, is to close again with the work going to Erskine.
1993	Sun's personal connectivity planet, SunSelect, has repackaged PC-NFS, the TCP/IP networking product for hooking PCs into multivendor Unix networks, into smaller units adding 10- and 25-user packs to the usual 100- and 500-user units.
1993	It provides file and print sharing, remote personal access, local network operability modules, disk-free personal support, electronic mail, systems management, asynchronous and synchronous communication from a single LAN Manager.
1993	With its sights set on the worldwide Keno Gaming market, AWA Gaming Systems has announced the release of Kenix, a Concurrent Corp, real-time Unix-based version of the system driving the popular gambling game Club Keno.
1993	Unisys Corp claims that the launch of its Communications Access Processor for linking Unix onto an SNA network last July (UX No 396)— and which last week made it into the UK — has attracted ‘rave reviews’.
1993	All of which might make the future less bright for Sequent Systems Inc, which currently provides the top-end 6000/75 and 85 multiprocessors for Unisys.
1993	Convex Corp is expected to reveal the fruits of its work with Hewlett-Packard using the PA-RISC chip early this week.
1993	Published reports claim Apple Inc has committed to using Motorola Inc's 32-bit 68060 superscalar chip, expected to ship in 50MHz and 66MHz levels in the second half of next year, in future Quadra workstations: the silicon is forecast to outperform the current 68040 three to four times and beat out the P5.
1993	Bard had been president of the $185m-a-year Integrated Systems Division of Science Corporation which he ran since 1984.
1993	He had also been a division president and group vice-president of Aydin Corporation, a systems and controls organization and a founder and executive vice-president of Delta Data Systems for close to ten years.
1993	Hyundai Electronics America's Axil Technology Inc Sparc workstations (UX Nos 402, 403), are being offered in the UK by Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire-based International Ltd and in Australia through Sydney-based Open Tec.
1993	Having devoted the greater part of this year and last to extending its near hegemony in the market for low-end and mid-range Unix-based imaging solutions, promoting the GL graphics library as a de facto standard, and continuing to digest the business of the former MIPS Systems Inc, SGI hasn't given much attention to its high-end.
1993	That looks pricey, missing both the personal and sub-$5,000 price points the company has been talking about, even if it does offer more floating point performance than Intel Corp's high-end 486DX-50 chip.
1993	Not waiting for the official Alpha launch on November 10, DEC had Jensen, its Alpha AXP personal prototype, out at Net World in Dallas last week.
1993	Separately, the company moved Richard Poulsen over to become president of Digital Europe, a post that has been vacant since Pier Carlo Falotti quit in June to join Ask Systems Inc.
1993	Sunnyvale, California-based, ParcPlace Systems Inc has introduced VisualWorks, an application development environment for corporate developers, which creates graphical client/server applications that are instantly portable across personal , Macs and Unix platforms.
1993	Priced at $3,000 or £5,000 for Windows 3.1 and Macintosh and $5,000 or £6,000 for Unix, it is supported on Intel Corp-based 80386/486 personal , Macs, Quadras and Powerbooks, Sun Microsystems Inc's Sparcstation 4s, IBM's RS/6000s, Hewlett-Packard Co's 9000s, DEC Ultrix and Sequent Systems Inc's 2000 multi-processors.
1993	ParcPlace also plans to introduce a cheaper personal version of SmallTalk for first time users unfamiliar with object oriented technology.
1993	Pyramid has also signed deals with Associates Inc to port its suite of mainframe applications to the MIS ES series, along with UK-based Lucas Management Systems Ltd, SAP AG and Oracle Corp.
1993	Convex Corp last week unveiled its new high end Meta Series Supercomputer linking its C-Series vector processors to clusters of 7100 Precision Architecture RISC processors, developed by ally Hewlett-Packard Co.
1993	x environments, Sun users can get Display Postscript from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Integrated Solutions Inc following a parallel deal Adobe struck last month (UX 403).
1993	The processing architecture of IBM Corp's is increasingly focusing around its Power RISC technology as a means of constructing systems of faster performance for a lower cost, says William Filip, vice president of IBM and president of IBM's Advanced Workstations and Systems Division.
1993	Using processors based on the Power RISC architecture, which has also been adopted by Apple Inc, Motorola Inc and Groupe Bull SA, Filip said IBM ‘will go aggressively into the low-end personal market next year with RISC technology.’
1993	Filip's division also has a joint development programme with the Intermediate Systems Division to design RISC-based versions of the group's mid-range , the AS/400.
1993	Opus, meanwhile, which focusing on its SparcCard add-in business, has arranged for Apex , the large Sun maintenance vendor, to do customer support for its Personal Mainframe customers.
1993	Although the Spanish government is the largest open systems user in the country, with two thirds of its systems now running Unix, economic pressure has forced it to suspend all future internal developments and abandon its tax incentive schemes for firms migrating to Unix.
1993	Nippon Digital Equipment Corp has a Japanese version of software that turns personal into X-terminals.
1993	It runs on MS-DOS V machines such as the DEC personal series and IBM Japan Ltd's PS/55 series, and on NEC Corp's PC-9800.
1993	Info World is betting IBM and Apple Inc bow their first Kaleida product at Comdex next month.
1993	Tandem Inc and Chorus Systemes SA last week signed a deal that will put a fault-tolerant version of the SVR4-based Chorus microkernel co-developed by the two companies on Tandem's Unix boxes.
1993	As Compaq Corp comes down market with its new servers, Dell Corp has shot upmarket with introducing the Dell 466SE/DSA, a server that incorporates a new Dell SCSI Array high capacity drive array, with Intel Corp's 80486DX2 microprocessor.
1993	IMI plc's Brook Street Ltd, Guildford, Surrey, is now marketing Dataworks Corp's Uniworks Unix MRP II manufacturing package in the UK: Uniworks is based upon the Unidata relational database.
1993	Harris Corp's Systems Division has introduced NightTrace, a graphical tool for analysing the behaviour of real-time multiprocessor applications, as part of its NightStar real-time software development environment: prices go from $1,000.
1993	CA-Unicenter for HP-UX has performed so well at four major beta sites says Islandia, New York-based Associates International Inc, that the company is bringing the systems management product for mission-critical applications forward and it will now be generally available in the first quarter of 1993.
1993	Silicon Graphics Inc has retained GE Capital Leasing Co to write leases on its workstations: GE Capital also finances IBM Corp, Amdahl Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, Hitachi Data Systems Inc, and Apple Inc leases.
1993	PRC will be supplying Hewlett-Packard 700/800 boxes, apparently secured by SecureWare Inc; secure iAPX-86 SCO Xenix; Oracle Corp and Uniplex Ltd applications; and Everex Inc's personal .
1993	It expects it to sell better than the P5 initially and claims Hewlett-Packard Co, Acer Corp, Compaq Systems Corp and DEC will be using it.
1993	Evans & Sutherland Corp says the Freedom 1000 and 3000 3D graphics accelerators that it is to sell on Sun Microsystems Inc platforms (UX No 407), have been designed as processor-independent units which could well end up on other CPU architectures in future, though none were mentioned specifically.
1993	It supports up to 15 drives per controller pair, thus appearing to the host as several very large SCSI-2 devices.
1993	Runtime prices are £200 per seat for Unix and VMS, £100 for Macintosh and personal versions, but development licences start at a very hefty £12,000 for Unix — £9,000 for the Intel-based SCO and Interactive variants — and £7,000 for Mac and PCs.
1993	Meanwhile, Apple Inc says it will fit out its Quadra 700/900 AUX 3.0 servers with DigiBoard multi-port boards, whilst a new worldwide OEM deal will see IBM supply DigiBoard 128-port asynchronous cluster controllers for its RS/6000 series.
1993	The base Paradigm technology comes from software originally developed by Boeing for internal network management and as a strategic technology for the Service Division's commercial network business.
1993	Oceanport, New Jersey, Concurrent Corp and FD Consulting, New York, are to jointly develop enhanced versions of FD's market information system and real-time Ticker processing system for Concurrent's range of Unix-based real-time systems.
1993	Until now, MicroCadam was supplied by Fujitsu only on its FMR series personal .
1993	It's a high-level application programming interface that sits on a Unix-based personal equipped with call processing hardware.
1993	Tandem Inc is its first user with its newly announced Voice Response Unit, designed for call centre automation, running on NonStop.
1993	They have an open client-server architecture and manage heterogeneous workstations, servers and host linked via a local area network.
1993	NeXT Inc is likely to go public next year, founder Steve Jobs said in Chicago last week, although he added that no steps have yet been taken to start the process: ‘Things (have been) going very well for us the last few quarters,’ Jobs said, and ‘this quarter looks quite good as well, so if things keep on their present course and the market is good, I think there's a real good possibility that we'll go public next year.’
1993	Ed Taylor, president of Pencom Software Inc, Austin, Texas, has stepped aside to make way for Frank King, erstwhile head of software development at Lotus Development Corp and past vice president of development for IBM's personal division.
1993	Deborah Coleman was one of the highest-flying women in Silicon Valley with the title chief financial officer until she suddenly took a long sabbatical a couple of years ago: she did return to Apple Inc and became vice-president for information systems, but quit again suddenly last week; she has now resurfaced at Tektronix Inc as vice-president for materials operations, which is a new post.
1993	The Object Management Group has snagged Wim Roelandts, vice president and general manager of Hewlett-Packard Co's Systems Organisation, as keynote speaker at Object World Boston, February 1–4 at the Hynes Convention Center.
1993	DEC will target Japan as a growing market for networked systems and a source of strategic alliances, Reuter reports from Tokyo: ‘Japan is a critically important market to Digital Equipment,’ president and chief executive Robert Palmer said at an exposition of DEC products in the city; Kubota Corp has already said it will use DEC's Alpha chip in its workstations and rumours naming Japanese companies that are planning Alpha-based links with DEC have appeared in the Japanese business press.
1993	SunSoft OEMs Solbourne Inc, CompuAdd Corp, Toshiba Corp and Hyundai Electronic Inc are targeting deliveries for next year.
1993	It remains to be seen whether the order rate is significant enough to justify the volume potential, even for a chip MIPS calls the first 100 SPECmark optimised for personal .
1993	DEC's preoccupation with its Alpha machines at the expense of its MIPS line has cost MIPS perhaps its most significant volume outlet besides Compaq Corp, another ACE casualty.
1993	MIPS can also not depend on its high-end Unix vendors like Concurrent Corp, Control Data Systems Inc, NCR Corp, Pyramid Technology Corp and Tandem Inc, to absorb more than 15% more than the 60,000 units they do already.
1993	Forte applications are developed as a single monolithic application and then subsequently partitioned or automatically broken up to run on various within the distributed environment.
1993	In its first iteration, the software is supposed to run on VAX/VMS, USL's SVR4, DEC Ultrix, Sun Microsystems Inc's SunOS, IBM AIX, Hewlett-Packard Co's HP/UX and OSF/1-based servers — with Apple Inc AUX to follow.
1993	Forte expects to sell direct and through OEMs beginning with its strategic partners, including Sequent (see page three) and two others which manufacture the servers Forte will run on.
1993	The company's long-term plan is to migrate to Windows-based personal after establishing dominance and market share on Unix platforms starting in 1993.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, Beaverton, Oregon, last week announced ptx/Clusters, a clustering capability enabling applications to view multiple-node systems as a single very large system using a single shared database.
1993	To improve its client/server story, Sequent is going with ptx/Transaction 2.0, its implementation of Unix System Labs' Tuxedo, TechGnosis SequeLink middleware for connecting Apple Macs and Windows-based personal to Symmetry, Information Builders Inc's EDA/SQL middleware for accessing various databases, and a new symmetric multi-processing release of its parallel-enable version of Netware.
1993	Besides its own system management products, a large-scale symmetric multi-processing version of Associates Corp's CA-Unicenter will be offered.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co is well ahead of the pack in fitting out its Unix machines with the kind of operations management systems that mainframe users expect, but Sun Microsystems Corp is galloping off down the same path and has gone to Legent Corp for an agreement under which Legent will convert Legent's system management tools to run on Sparcsystems under Solaris Unix.
1993	Open/36 will be offered in early 1993 by Universal Software, Los Angeles unit of Acom Ltd of Montreal.
1993	Apple Inc says it is still on target for mid-1994 launch of its first RISC-based Macintosh after IBM Corp announced that it was now shipping the first PowerPC chips to Apple.
1993	Targeted at companies looking to downsize mainframe RPG-based applications, the company is currently negotiating OEM deals with Sequent Systems Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc and NCR Corp.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has beaten Digital Equipment Corp, Control Data Systems Inc, and Sun Microsystems Inc to an order for the Russian Relcom electronic mail network.
1993	The new was supplied by hardware reseller and software developer, LVS (Moscow), business partner for Sequent and Oracle Corp in Russia.
1993	An Association of Ukrainian professionals has been established in Kiev: according to Business World newspaper, the association has been formed to co-ordinate the development of business software applications and provide training for end users.
1993	The Sovgeo joint venture enterprise in Russia has opened a centre in Moscow to provide processing of geophysical data on oil, gas and coal deposits in the Russian Federation.
1993	Avioc from the UK has begun marketing Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcstation 10s in Russia through the Moscow Sparc centre: export licences are still required for RISC-based equipment but the firm says it takes only 10 to 12 weeks to get one.
1993	It implements a multiple-instruction, multiple-data architecture that can also emulate single-instruction, multiple-data and multiple MIMD architectures Cray said.
1993	The school's Systems Research Group, creators of both Net2 and the Berkeley Software Design company, said resumption of distribution is under ‘administrative review.’
1993	Based on a set of built-in general-purpose database objects integrated with a GUI, another industry first, Vision is intended for mixed environments of Windows-based personal , Macs running X-server software and Motif-grounded X-Window systems, and allows for rapid application development of all standard GUI window styles.
1993	Insignia Solutions Inc, of Mountain View, California, is also porting to the RS/6000, its last significant port for SoftPC 3.0, its personal emulation software.
1993	Motorola Inc's Group, based in Tempe, Arizona, has released Motorola SV/88 R4, its commercial SMP version of Unix SVR4.
1993	Phoenix-like, it is reportedly trying to become something in the nature of a superconsortium leveraging its test suite expertise into an organisation that ports and develops test suites for the likes of Hewlett-Packard Co, DEC and the IBM/Apple Inc PowerPC crowd, and probably does the branding and handles ISV recruitment.
1993	And Sun says it now has PC-NFS software on a million personal .
1993	NCR Corp reports that Objectivity Inc's Objectivity/DB object database management system is now up on its NCR System 3000 .
1993	IBM says its RS/6000s and PowerPC will run Windows applications under AIX by spring next year.
1993	In the US, Apple Inc has effected a new Unix value added reseller campaign, Quick Start, with the aim of broadening the market for its Quadra AUX 3.0 servers by getting new applications on board.
1993	Sun's Tsunami forces reportedly have orders from Sun chief Scott McNealy to be ‘animalistic,’ ripping up the old price book and standing the industry status quo on its head.
1993	To cut the fat out of the Classic's price tag, Sun will adopt a policy historically alien to the industry, the ‘no dicker sticker’ that American car makers like General Motors and Ford are experimenting with.
1993	Sun also expects to make money on the box by taking business away from high-end personal , particularly PC CAD accounts with the LX, and attracting a new set of customers lured by the promise that Tsunami, a better value, will outlive its depreciation schedule.
1993	A Sun Microsystems Corp vice president, before biting his tongue, claimed it would be a ‘piece of cake’ getting 100,000 units out the door in the next year, close to half the volume Sun currently does in a year.
1993	Faced with a longer sales cycle for the Dragon, Sun expects to sell thousands of them in competition with Pyramid Technology Corp, Sequent Systems Inc and Hewlett-Packard.
1993	Dataquest Japan forecasts that while the office market at $4,600m is currently double the size of the workstation market, the market will decline at 7% annually over the next few years to 1996, while Unix workstation shipments will grow at 29% a year over the period.
1993	It has formed a new division, the & Personal Communication Sales Division, charged with expanding the number of Sony workstation dealers, and at the same time developing products wanted by large users.
1993	Canon Sales, which is the main dealer for Macintosh , also has a systems integration business with Digital Equipment Corp, NeXT Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co equipment, as well as selling its own printers via a chain of retail shops called Canon Zero-One Shops.
1993	Unix workstations are now being installed between the mainframe and the personal , which formerly served as SNA terminals.
1993	Reshuffling its North America operations is, ZDS officials say, ‘part of an effort to make the firm more responsive to the personal Unix-based market worldwide…the company had to start at the heart of the problem the bureaucracy in the company.’
1993	Feeling the pinch after Compaq Corp's recent price reductions, ZDS says it's also working to bring its pricing policies more in line with its competition.
1993	The VARpack provides resellers with the means to develop guaranteed fully integrated open systems with provision for value added functions such as facsimile connections, integration with personal and built-in security, which are important for product differentiation.
1993	The modules included in the pack are as follows: Hasler AG's automated facsimile hardware and software that enables end users to send and receive messages directly from their workstations; Advanced Graphical Environments Inc's X Server software that integrates Windows, MS-DOS and X Window applications on 80386 and 80486 personal ; Planar Systems Inc's and Unicord Inc's Unix terminal integration software that enables MS-DOS and Windows 3-based personal to be integrated into Unix environments; Novell's LAN Workplace for MS-DOS that enables personal users to link to other local area network users or remote hosts; Locus Computing Corp's personal interface for resource sharing between MS-DOS, Windows, Mac and Unix users; Schasiepen GmbH's Netprint for shared access to a central printer on a network; a TCP/IP boot prom — enabling MS-DOS and standard TCP/IP network software to be booted from a network server — and Ethernet board for diskless, networked workstations; and Unicorn security software for controlling access, activity logging and reporting.
1993	Torchraven is targeting the VARpack at resellers in vertical markets such as local government, finance and retail; those developing applications for specific products; and departments in large companies that act as resellers within their organisations.
1993	Other words from the inside has DEC trundling off to Comdex with a bunch of Alpha AXP Personal for a technology demo of NT with third-party and DEC's own applications.
1993	Convex Corp is seeking to undercut its competition with a new entry-level, upgradeable minisupercomputer, the C3800-ES, the first machine, the company claims, to offer GaAs technology to the low end market.
1993	IBM Corp has won 88000 RISC aficionado , Harris Corp, for the PowerPC RISC IBM is developing with Motorola Inc and Apple Inc as part of an alliance aimed at the US Federal market.
1993	The agreement covers co-operative marketing of the Harris Night Hawk line of real-time Unix with the IBM RS/6000 to US government customers and involves Harris in helping IBM implement real-time capability for the RS/6000.
1993	Harris Corp's Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Systems Division has also introduced an integrated data acquisition and control system using its one- to eight-processor real-time Night Hawk with a range of VME-based input-output boards.
1993	The 70-plus boards now available on Night Hawk are the result of an OEM agreement with VME Microsystems International Corp of Huntsville, Alabama, coupled with Notebook/XE and LT/Control real-time data acquisition and control software from Laboratory Technologies Corp of Wilmington, Massachusetts.
1993	Mountain View, California-based Eo Inc looks like beating Apple Inc to market with a personal communicator: the company has formally launched its first two products, the Eo Personal Communicator 440 and 880, handheld devices with facsimile, electronic mail, cellular phone and personal computing capabilities.
1993	The partners, including AST Research Inc, CompuAdd Corp, Dell Corp and Toshiba Corp, are expected to bring SunSoft's Unix-on-Intel to market from February next year, on 80486 machines with at least 12Mb main memory.
1993	Although HAL contains just 1% of the total amount of code in Solaris, it incorporates important application programming interface specifications for maintaining consistent operation across from different makers.
1993	Sun's personal integration arm, the Billerica, Massachusetts-based SunSelect, already offers a software emulator — with an optional Sbus hardware accelerator board — for running MS-DOS and Microsoft Corp Windows applications on Sparc systems under Solaris at Intel 80486 speed.
1993	SunSoft has recently recruited Bud Tribble, architect of Next Inc's Next Step interface, as vice president of end user software, to orchestrate its efforts in that area.
1993	Stratus Inc is moving its fault-tolerant Unix and VOS machines to the Hewlett-Packard Co Precision Architecture RISC from the Intel Corp 80860, but IBM Corp has just renewed its OEM agreement with Stratus, which dates back to 1985.
1993	Acer Group Inc's San Jose, California-based, Altos Systems division has branched out into software and introduced two packages designed to integrate Novell Inc NetWare with systems running Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix.
1993	RDI Corp, San Diego integrator of Unix portables, is going after the — relatively — low-cost colour portables market with the BriteLite IPC, which combines Sun Microsystems Inc's Sparcstation IPC motherboard with an active matrix thin film transistor colour display and a new 450Mb hard drive for $10,000.
1993	Swearing that the deck isn't stacked in favour of Chorus Systemes SA, Unix International has assembled a Kernel Architecture Work Group including Amdahl Corp, Bellcore Technologies, Fujitsu Ltd, Hal Systems Ltd, Intel Corp, Locus Computing Corp, Motorola Inc, NCR Corp, NEC, OSSI, Oracle Corp, Sequent Systems Inc, Tandem Inc, Unisys Corp and of course Chorus.
1993	Metaphor Systems Inc, the company IBM bought off of Dave Liddle when it was setting up Taligent with Apple Inc, is expected to enter the Unix arena this week by hooking its decision support software to the Sybase Inc and Red Brick databases.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co is likely to steal DEC's thunder and whisk away its number two position as the second largest vendor in the US by 1994, Hembricht & Quist analyst Robert Herwick says.
1993	IBM says it plans to ‘blow Intel out of the water’ at Comdex later this month where it will demo a 100Mhz high speed clone version of Intel Corp's 80486 microprocessor, Reseller News reports.
1993	Olivetti, which supplies personal to DEC, expects Alpha and Intel Corp processors will each account for 35% of its hardware sales from 1995, printers will account for 20% and other products 10%.
1993	Associates Inc previewed its object-oriented workbench, CA-Visual Objects, the week before last at CA Technicon ‘92.
1993	NEC has also entered final discussions with Control Data Systems to supply NEC-manufactured workstations and personal under an OEM agreement.
1993	Still bleeding copiously in the cut throat personal market, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA is to announce a reorganisation to cut costs further, Reuter hears from ‘industry sources’.
1993	‘Despite Olivetti's best efforts, it is continuing to be hurt by falling prices and must do more to cut costs to bring it back to operating profitability,’ one source said.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, Beaverton, Oregon, has introduced DecisionPoint/Relational Query System which is the first in the series of announcements that will bundle the Sequent hardware with third party software intended to fill a specific niche market.
1993	Harris Corp has switched to PowerPC (UX No 410), and now Encore Corp says it will use Digital Equipment Corp's Alpha AXP architecture in future designs of Infinity 90 Series.
1993	IBM has announced the Workstation One family of programs that give personal and workstations running OS/2 2.0, AIX Unix, Microsoft Corp Windows or Apple Macintosh system access to applications on IBM mainframes and Digital Equipment Corp minis — but they all require a server between the desktop machine and the host, with the minimum server being an 80386 machine.
1993	They include Shenzen Comtec Software Ltd, China National Software and Technology Corporation, China Great Wall Group Company, Langchao Electronic Information Industrial Group Corporation and Chang Jiang Union Corporation.
1993	At a meeting organised by Cheshire-based Barclays Operations, the facilities management division of the Barclays group, Peter Eldridge, IBM's IT Infrastructure Consultant, said that this contradicted industry speculation that users want to ditch mainframes in favour of mid range systems and that recession was preventing new investment.
1993	Auditex Espana SA has developed a Unix driver called Synergia, which enables Apple Inc's Macintosh to be used as viewdata servers.
1993	As reported (UX No 410), IBM has extended its OEM agreement with fault-tolerant supplier Stratus Inc for another three years, although the fault-tolerant system builder says it doesn't expect to get much more business as a result.
1993	Meanwhile, hoping to take advantage of the turmoil at Uniplex, UK Sun reseller, Productivity Solutions Ltd, Wakefield, West Yorkshire, is aiming to wean Uniplex office software users on to the rival Aster*x office suite it markets, offering the Applix Inc software for £99 per user to existing Uniplex customers until next May.
1993	It's available immediately for Sun boxes under Open Look and Motif,and Sun, IBM, HP and personal Unix platforms will be added next year.
1993	Siemens Nixdorf's workforce this year is expected to be cut by at least 600 additional people, up from 200 people last year, due to the general decline in demand for products.
1993	NextStep 3.0 is supposed to show up on Dell , Compaq and Epson 80486 machines at Comdex this week, demonstrating compatibility with MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows applications.
1993	The Siemens Nixdorf Osteuropa GmbH division of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG has now spent $10m on its Moscow office, its training centre and showroom, and the struggling company hopes to get a return on this investment by 1995: at present, SNI is concentrating on the development of a dealer network and the creation of joint venture enterprises involved in transferring the technology of some of its lines.
1993	SunSelect, Sun Microsystems Inc's PC-to-Unix connectivity satellite, was demonstrating technology that allows personal users running Microsoft Windows NT software to access Unix system networks using PC-NFS.
1993	The group is currently developing another component for the API, which will address non-SQL data stored in personal databases.
1993	IBM Corp duly announced a whole string of speech recognition products, ranging from basic personal applications to leading-edge speech technology, developed at the Thomas J Watson Research Center.
1993	The IBM Personal Co will offer the products to run in a variety of environments, including MS-DOS, Windows and OS/2 2.0 in an MS-DOS window, and via a licensing and distribution agreement with Dragon Systems Inc, the unit will also offer DragonDictate-7-k and Dragon Talk-to-Plus to its customers.
1993	Corollary president, George White, believes ‘there is no doubt that NT is going to win a significant stake of the personal open systems market.
1993	The personal market wants NT and it'll surprise the hell out of a lot of Unix vendors.’
1993	Its affiliated DEC and IBM-oriented business are impec Computervertriebs GmbH and Xeltec Computervertriebs GmbH, both of Tuebingen, Germany, Xeltec AG in Buelach, Switzerland and transtec Ltd, Banbury, Oxfordshire.
1993	It also said HP-UX multi-user , test-and-measurement products and medical equipment had good increases over last year, and even personal and components had very good order levels.
1993	In turnover terms, with $16,400m for the year, the company sailed past Digital Equipment Corp with about $2,000m more in annual business — but a significant proportion of its total is not computer-related, whereas DEC is a 100% company.
1993	UnixWare is aimed at the Intel Corp 80386 and 80486 personal desktop market but it will also be available for Sparc platforms in 1993.
1993	Its personal network protocol support is good but not the equal of Unix at its best.
1993	The introductions last year of massively parallel machines by the likes of Intel Corp, Thinking Machines Corp opened up the parallel market and led to forecasts that they would eventually replace the vector machines first developed by Seymour Cray, who did his pioneering work at the then Control Data Corp before moving on to found Cray Research Inc and then Cray Corp.
1993	Cray Research was showing parts of its first massively parallel , the T3D, specifically the basic board, which will not be available until next year.
1993	The Portland Group Inc, Wilsonville, Oregon, and Syracuse University's Northeast Parallel Architectures Center have formed a technology alliance to research, develop and distribute compilers and tools for parallel systems.
1993	Targets set for the compiler — including provision of a single parallel programming model for developing applications that can run on a variety of — were formulated by a coalition of industrial groups known as the High Performance Fortran Forum (HPFF).
1993	Its alliance with the Portland Group will result in future data parallel compilers for other languages such as C++ and Ada, as well as communications interfaces and run-time tools, which will be targeted at networks and clusters of heterogeneous machines and shared-memory parallel .
1993	It's an embarrassing thing for a fault-tolerant vendor to have to say, but a bug in Guardian for the Tandem Inc NonStop CLX machines caused them to reset their clocks to December 1, 1983 on November 1, causing systems with time-dependent programs to go haywire.
1993	The latest league table (up to July 1992) of the value of the US installed base, compiled every six months by La Jolla, California-based Intelligence Corp, includes a Unix machine in the top ten for the first time, among the IBM and Amdahl mainframes, AS/400s and Cray -YMPs.
1993	Apple Inc chairman and chief executive officer John Sculley's name has made it to the short list to be Secretary of Commerce in the Clinton Administration: if he takes the cabinet post, Apple's likely to look outside for a replacement.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has named its European vice president and general manager, Roger Cooper, to the position of senior vice president, geographic operations responsible for all of the company's sales and service units worldwide.
1993	Alliant Systems Corp, Littleton, Massachusetts is liquidating, and says it is in talks to sell parts of its technology and its service business to a third party.
1993	It initially recommended Sun Microsystems Inc workstations to run it, and also has an agreement with Stratus Inc under which it is marketed under the Stratus FTX fault-tolerant Unix.
1993	Europe's trade deficit in with Japan and the US, now coming up to $40 billion (almost equally distributed) was described as ‘a crisis’.
1993	Inmos Ltd has won approval from the European Commission to turn the Esprit-funded Harmony project into commercial products, in partnership with micro-kernel vendor Chorus Systemes SA and parallel experts Archipel of Annecy-le-Vieux, France.
1993	DESKSTATION SHOWS ARCSTATION-1 R-SERIES PERSONAL FOR NT
1993	Integrated Device Technology Inc, the Santa Clara, California firm that is a licensee of the MIPS Technologies Inc R-series RISC family, still sees the RISC as an attractive personal engine, despite the collapse of the Advanced Computing Environment initiative.
1993	It has joined forces with DeskStation Technology Inc and OPTi Inc to create the R4000PC RISCNT chip set and combine it with the OPTi 486EISAWB chip set to create a Windows NT desktop personal .
1993	The resulting machine is being launched by Lenexa, Kansas-based DeskStation Technology as the ARCStation 1, claimed to be the first personal to use the power of RISC in combination with an EISA chip set to provide a migration path for current personal users to high-end Windows NT applications.
1993	Concurrent Corp, now based in Oceanport, New Jersey has unleashed a torrent of new products and services — it counts 45 all told.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp offered the low-end Sparcstation 10 Model 20 in September as a promotional system because it was supply-bound on the faster versions of the processor (UX No 402 and see page five), and never intended the 33MHz box to become a permanent member of the product line.
1993	Also at Esprit'92 — Associated Experts bv, Amsterdam, Holland, demonstrated a parallel programming development environment, Prepare.
1993	Microsoft also plans to put Access on other platforms including IBM OS/2 and the Apple Inc Macintosh in future.
1993	NEC is targeting use in workstation, high-end personal and multi-processing system applications.
1993	Japanese use the QWERTY keyboard to input Japanese to the system: this appears as the kana syllabary on the screen, and then by various methods (such as pressing the space bar) a list of possible kanji ideograms that could represent the kana text is displayed for selection.
1993	This laborious data entry method comes in various guises — that fact in itself explains the slow pace of penetration in Japanese society.
1993	The centre will have a number of machines such as IBM RS/6000, AS/400 and PS/55 linked to Sun Microsystems Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co workstations under Ethernet, and then to personal such as the top-selling NEC Corp 9800 under a Token Ring network.
1993	It has added support for personal and workstation clients running X-Windows/Motif.
1993	Smartstream, Smartstream Analyzer and InterQ are aimed at organisations that want to reduce host cycles, automate application workflow and provide better information access to users at the desktop, while enabling customers to re-engineer business processes.
1993	Solbourne Inc, Longmont, Colorado, plans to deliver versions of its symmetric multi-processing (SMP) Sparc server architecture with a least 20 CPUs by the time Sun Microsystems Inc manages to wheel out its own 20-way SparcCenter 2000 slated for the end of next year (UX No 411).
1993	It is turning first to the Oracle Corp Financials world, a niche market, it admits, but one that has helped nurture the rapid growth of database server companies like Sequent Systems Inc.
1993	The microkernel, which is based on the Mach kernel developed at Carnegie Mellon University, will also be at the heart of the planned operating environment from the Taligent Inc joint venture with Apple Inc.
1993	Two Macintosh servers, one designed to provide faster AppleShare performance and the other a high-speed imaging server, are under development in Apple Inc's Enterprise Systems Division for delivery next year, according to MacWeek sources.
1993	Troubles continue to pile up for Sequoia Systems Inc and now Ultimate Corp has filed a lawsuit against it alleging among other things that Sequoia has sold and attempted to sell its systems and maintenance services directly to Ultimate's dealers and customers in violation of its contractual obligations, that it has disparaged and defamed Ultimate to such customers and dealers, and has interfered with Ultimate's relationships with such customers and dealers.
1993	The as yet unnamed company will compete for contracts from high technology companies, but not ones in the industry because of the competition this would create with IBM.
1993	Reseller News and its vendor sources say Intel, which already bumped Pentium into the first quarter, will be delaying it until late next year because of those heat dissipation and manufacturing problems we told you about (UX No 410).
1993	Sun Microsystems has lost its vice president treasurer, Thomas Meredith, to Dell , where he has been named chief financial officer.
1993	Steve Jobs says his NeXT Inc is taking a major risk in developing NeXTStep 3.0 for 80486-based personal , but reckons that it is the only serious competition for Microsoft Corp's Windows.
1993	Cambridge, UK-based Tadpole Technology Plc is to develop and manufacture a notebook for IBM Corp using the PowerPC RISC under an agreement the two signed on November 24.
1993	Its SPARCbook 2 notebook is expected early next year.
1993	Over in the UK touting the advantages of his NeXTStep object-oriented environment to the City of London's financial services market, NeXT Inc founder and chief executive Steve Jobs revealed that the long-awaited implementation of NeXTStep for Intel Corp's 80486 architecture will not be generally available until the third quarter of next year.
1993	Personal manufacturers like Compaq Corp and Dell Corp have been touted as potential OEM customers for NeXTStep 486 since details first emerged, but Jobs has nothing in writing yet.
1993	As well as NeXTStep, the NeXT , which currently uses Motorola Inc's 68040 CPU, will also be upgraded to use RISC architecture.
1993	The company looks for demand for board-level products to continue — OEM customers for these have included E-Systems Inc, Polaroid Corp, General Electric Co Inc, Amdahl Corp, Encore Corp, Xerox Corp and Thomson-CSF SA.
1993	It also plans to develop notebook that will be compatible with the workstations made by other manufacturers.
1993	According to Electronic News, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG is in final discussions with Apple Inc and the AT&T Co-Eo Inc-Matsushita Electric Industrial Co before deciding whether to go for the architecture of the Advanced RISC Machines Ltd ARM-based Newton, or the AT&T Co Hobbit-based device.
1993	Meantime Ing C Olivetti & Co — which has an interest in the ARM RISC via its 80% holding in Acorn Plc, is developing its own personal communicator, but is also looking at the AT&T Hobbit, and may join the alliance with Eo; its own product would be the next generation of the 2.2lbs Quaderno portable, which uses the 16MHz 8086-compatible NEC Corp V30HL chip.
1993	In the ‘we-reap-as-we-sow’ category this week there are reports by Reseller News that WordPerfect is now thinking about dusting off its long-standing complaints against Microsoft Corp and turning them into an anti-trust action if the US Federal Trade Commission doesn't hop to and litigate.
1993	It supports RAID levels 0, 1, 3 and 5 — and runs with various flavours of Unix, Novell NetWare and Apple Inc Macs (UX No 395).
1993	NeXT Inc has struck a deal with Dolphin Server Technology A/S, the Norwegian manufacturer of Motorola Inc 88000-based server systems.
1993	The plan ‘would strain the resources of any large company.
1993	The object stuff will allow personal clients to manage InterBase data as though it were local to the system.
1993	The end product is intended to be a that could control a robot to perform such tasks as picking strawberries or blackcurrants.
1993	As the world comes to depend more and more on telecommunications and networks, AT&T is striving ever harder to pre-empt or avoid the kinds of breakdowns that have plagued its long-distance network and caused chaos in parts of the US over the past couple of years.
1993	Developers told Reseller News that the company has several fixes in the works, including asking them to install a fan on a small board to blow directly on the chip.
1993	The centre will have a network of 12 .
1993	Aachen, Germany-based massively parallel manufacturer Parsytec GmbH and the European Community are co-funding a European-based project, Zeus, aimed at boosting European industrial performance through the application of massively parallel processing.
1993	The German, Dutch and Greek participants, which joined the project in July, all have freshly installed T805 Transputer-based GigaCube systems from Parsytec.
1993	The University of Athens and University of Amsterdam both have entry-level 512-node — or eight-Gigacube Parsytec .
1993	Hoping to deflect attention from its currency-dealing embarrassments, Dell Corp, Austin, Texas, last week added 18 new 80486-based personal for immediate shipment.
1993	Latest, announced from up in Redmond, Washington, brings together 19 industry and high technology companies claiming aggregate annual revenues exceeding $110,000m in the Customer Support Consortium.
1993	The price wars that have left them bleeding and dying in the personal field this year are going to spread to the margin-rich personal server, Reseller News predicts.
1993	Prices on RISC- and Intel-based servers are expected to fall 20% to 25% early next year, it says, as vendors respond to the low-priced entries of the IBM Server 85 XP486 and the trend-setting Compaq Corp ProSignia.
1993	The problem in today's industry is that a company needs to be not just adequately well run but superbly well run to turn in acceptable numbers: Hewlett-Packard Co, now doing over $16,000m of business has 20,000 fewer employees than Digital Equipment Corp, which is still stuck at around $14,500m.
1993	UK firm VisionWare Ltd, Leeds, is enhancing XVision, its X-Windows-under-Microsoft Windows software, to support Novell Inc NetWare, thereby allowing Univel Inc UnixWare application servers to integrate with NetWare-based personal networks.
1993	Mountain View, California-based, Network Computing Devices Inc PC-X Division has come up with a $200 software package that lets a personal at home or in the field access applications on remote Unix- or VMS-based host .
1993	PC-Xremote Edition turns a personal into an X Window System server so that the user not connected to a LAN can access hosts supporting X via a modem or RS-232 serial connection.
1993	Cairo is too far away to be anything more than just a stake in the ground against IBM/Apple Inc while the hoopla surrounding Windows For Workgroups is meant to distract attention away from an increasingly late NT.
1993	A group of users, integrators and vendors is, we hear, attempting to re-draw the laws of conventional computing in a effort to put users — rather than — at the centre of the industry's cosmological system.
1993	Users insisted on taking the Apple Inc Macintosh interface and IBM's Common User Access schema as role models.
1993	The majority of the personal world is already happily at work with Microsoft Corp Windows, regardless of underlying technology.
1993	SUN SIGNS SCIENCES IN SYSTEMS INTEGRATION PUSH
1993	While standardising on its Solaris Unix, and, in-house, its Sparc RISC microprocessor family, Sun Microsystems Inc is determined to extend its reach into every aspect of the business, and its latest target for conquest is systems integration.
1993	As a step in this direction, Sun Microsystems Corp has signed a service alliance agreement with Sciences Corp, El Segundo, California to pursue systems integration business in the wireless telecommunications market.
1993	The agreement covers the full range of Sciences' software and services in systems integration and technology consulting and all hardware products provided by Sun.
1993	MOTOROLA's INTERNAL IT DIVISION IS ITS BIGGEST SYSTEMS CUSTOMER
1993	It has apparently bought Delta 8000 Unix systems worth the equivalent of $40m — 10% of Motorola's worldwide systems sales and almost half its European sales to date.
1993	The Systems Group responsible for manufacturing and marketing the 88100-based Unix machines contributes $400m annually to Motorola Inc's coffers — of which $100m is from in Europe.
1993	Motorola's UK division of the Systems Group sells a whacking two thirds of total UK system sales, the largest contributor to European sales.
1993	LAN Manager for Workgroups supports personal clients running Windows for Workgroups — Microsoft's peer-to-peer connectivity version of Windows.
1993	The Dolphin SCI Technology A/S arm of Oslo, Norway-based Dolphin Server Technology A/S, already has an agreement with Vitesse Semiconductor Corp to make chips for its Scalable Coherent Interface high-speed bus in Gallium Arsenide — it runs at 1Gbps — and with Convex Corp to use the thing.
1993	Apple Inc and Novell Inc have been discussing the possibility of a merger between the two companies according to the San Jose Mercury News Apple declined to comment on the report, and Novell denied it, saying that ‘We're always in industry discussions with them, but we're not having discussions with them about merging,’ but the paper says that the talks between Apple chairman John Sculley and Novell chairman Ray Noorda were a closely-guarded secret and known only by an elite group of senior executives at the two firms.
1993	Not quite all of its $16,000m-plus annual turnover is computer-related, although are infiltrating all its non-computer businesses.
1993	Employment in the Products Organisation increased by about 2,100 people in the year to meet expansion needs.
1993	A year earlier it was Vittorio Cassoni — then head of AT&T's Group and the man who forged the deal with Sun Microsystems Inc which lead to the creation of the Open Software Foundation — who was sufficiently encouraged by the work of London firm UniSoft Ltd on a binary compatibility standard for Unix running on Motorola Inc 680x0 and 88000 CPU lines, to back the concept of Unix ABIs.
1993	Melbourne, Australia-based, Power Software Group Inc has set up a subsidiary, Today Distribution AB, Sweden, in association with its Swedish distributor, software house Arcad Technology AB.
1993	The actions we are announcing today demonstrate IBM's continuing resolve to deal aggressively with the difficult transition that is occurring in the industry.
1993	It also plans to increase the autonomy of its AdStar storage, Pennant Systems printer, and Personal Co businesses.
1993	Granted, 90% of all Classics will go into distributed environments, but the box was still touted at its introduction as a personal killer.
1993	Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG has stuck resolutely to mainstream computing technologies and has not pioneered anything exotic since Siemens years ago inherited the scientific machine developed by Telefunken GmbH, and that didn't last long.
1993	And the failure of IBM management is that it didn't understand — and still doesn't understand — the extent of the mischief the genie of open systems it let out of the bottle with the original open IBM Personal , could wreak.
1993	NEC is counting on shipping 1,500 units to Control Data by the end of 1994, and the two are considering developing their relationship further, including the supply by NEC of other UNIX workstations to Control Data, the adoption by NEC of some Control Data applications to fill gaps in its own line — and the marketing by Control Data of NEC personal , probably the Ultralite MS-DOS laptop .
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has teamed up with IBM Corp's Metaphor Systems Inc for joint development and marketing of software to provide access from Metaphor's Data Interpretation System decision support software to HP 9000 Series 800 Precision Architecture servers, making the machine the first non-IBM for the product.
1993	Sun says it will be able to compete more aggressively in the personal networking market with Sitka's peer-to-peer and pen computing network technology.
1993	They are claimed to be the first ever to enable system administrators to monitor and manage all their computing resources — , networks, and relational database applications — from one central management console.
1993	End users will be able to use personal and workstation-based tools that feature graphical user interfaces for easier manipulation and analysis of data, it suggests.
1993	OEM customers, including Dell Corp, AST Research Inc, Compaq Corp, CompuAdd Corp and Toshiba Corp are breathing sighs of relief, but said they were unwilling to comment until final copies are delivered.
1993	Lenexa, Kansas-based LDS Inc says almost any personal connected via serial hardware can transfer files and other data between any popular Unix-type system using EMPath, its new comms package.
1993	Duna is Hungary's largest distributor, with independent dealers in every major town.
1993	Duna's ultimate aim is to support its distribution activities by advertising in its own local publications, while also hoping to attract advertising from its competitors.
1993	Pick Systems Inc, Irvine, California is making rather a splash in the former Soviet Union and has now been awarded what it reckons is one of the largest automation projects to be undertaken by the Russian government in the next 12 months.
1993	Last Wednesday's heavy New York papers, the Times and the Wall Street Journal, devoted acres of newsprint to the disastrous turn taken in the tide of IBM Corp's affairs — but alongside, IBM still ran a chirpy RS/6000 ad with a picture of computer-generated bubbles, with a blurb entitled The That Made This Picture is Also Making History.
1993	CEPBA itself has Parsys Ltd's SuperNode CN-1000, Convex Corp's C-3840, and a Thinking Machines Corp Connection machine.
1993	It has been operating for a year now, with the aim of showing researchers both the benefits of massively parallel and how to use them.
1993	Littleton, Massachusetts-based Alliant Systems Corp is taking a long time to die — too long for Craig Mundie, who resigned as president and chief executive to accept a position with Microsoft Corp as general manager, Advanced Consumer Technologies.
1993	Solbourne Inc's vice president of marketing, Travis White, has resigned from the company for personal reasons.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co is starting to realize a heartfelt wish: passing DEC as number two maker.
1993	It says the investigators are preparing a wide range of recommendations on how to proceed against Microsoft — everything from splitting the company into pieces, to erecting a Chinese Wall between divisions, to altering the way its software is sold to manufacturers.
1993	Sun forms SunDries for supplies and SunTruss for support.
1993	Francis Lorentz makes Paris Metro pay by replacing all personnel with .
1993	Siemens abandons , sells user base to Unisys for $1.
1993	Hewlett-Packard buys the rest of Hitachi's business.
1993	Despite Hewlett-Packard Co's Image/SQL interface announcement (UX No 416), Wokingham, Berkshire-based consultancy firm Enterprise Services Ltd is to distribute what it says is the world's first development environment for providing transparent SQL access to disparate non-relational databases.
1993	He is willing to throw in a couple of technical support people to explain to Bill Gates how Sparc works, and he will even sell naked hardware to an OEM like Dell Corp or Electronic Design Systems.
1993	Kawasaki Steel Corp displayed for the first time the Universe FR fault-resilient which it sells under a distribution arrangement with Charles River Data Systems, Framingham, Massachusetts.
1993	Frame Technology has a number of sales channels in Japan, including Rikei Corp on Sony NEWS, Oki Electric on the OkiStation, Sparcstations, Matsushita with its PanaStation.
1993	Fujitsu Ltd showed the Subaru three-dimensional graphics system system launched in October.
1993	Houston, Texas-based, Talus Corp and the Electronic & Science Centre (ESCS) of the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology have released the first Russian programme for NeXt Inc's NeXtStations.
1993	Unix SVR4.2-on-Intel house, Consensys Corp, Toronto, Canada, has signed a boatload of European distributors for its Consensys 4.2 implementation of Unix System Lab's desktop operating system: Garmhausen and Partner Belgium, Sterrebeek, Belgium; RCM Company AB, Karlstad, Sweden; Garmhausen & Partner GmbH, Bonn, Germany (for Croatia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovenia); Future Soft, Paris, France and Onsite , Allershausen, Germany — the rest of Europe will be handled by Consensys’ European operation in Reading, UK. +44 734 833241.
1993	In the UK, Unix consultancy, Paragon Project Services, Bracknell, Berkshire, has acquired the software support division of MS-DOS shop, LSI , Dublin, Ireland.
1993	Equipment includes an ES/9000 Model 150, seven RS/6000s, 13 high precision graphic workstations and Catia software for aided design, manufacturing and engineering.
1993	Evans & Sutherland Corp, Salt Lake City, Utah has formed an industrial design unit in Europe and named Peter Keuschnigg the European general manager: the new unit, in Munich, is responsible for sales and support of Evans & Sutherland's industrial design products in Europe, including the CDRS software.
1993	VMark Software Inc, Framingham, Massachusetts, has made its uniVerse post-relational database available on Tandem Inc's fault-tolerant Unix systems.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is to phase out its Boston manufacturing facility, where about 190 people are employed making cables for .
1993	Sequent Systems Inc figures it will be seeing $30m over the next eight years from selling its Symmetry 2000/750 and 450 machines to the US Department of Veteran Affairs as part of a multi-vendor team led by systems integrator Federal Data Corporation.
1993	Three-quarters of respondents to a survey by the Malaysian National Federation are currently using proprietary systems — 81% of those said they'd be moving to open systems in future.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc and a still-unidentified partner are developing a five-member Pentium-based symmetric multiprocessor line that Sequent will reportedly offer as a software development, application server and database platform for Windows NT.
1993	Wavetracer launched its deskside single instruction multiple data (SIMD) data transport system a year ago (UX No 379), discontinuing its old custom one-bit systems at the same time.
1993	But it suffered from aggressive marketing by established players such as Cray Research Inc and Convex Corp, and has now laid off ‘a large percentage’ of its workforce, and shut down sales, marketing, manufacturing and support operations.
1993	Based on MIT's X11R5 server code, Xoftware/32 for Windows 3.1 enables users to concurrently run and display Microsoft Windows and X Window applications on the same personal , and includes automated host login through an icon, a multi-process start-up system for opening multiple clients simultaneously, automatic font substitution and a graphics slide scale.
1993	At the low end, PNMS Client/Server supports multiple workstations and personal running X Windows, Motif, OpenLook and MS Windows.
1993	Aside from the USL/Novell merger, AT&T and Novell have also reached a separate agreement to co-market products that link their core businesses: networks and business phones.
1993	The technology will take advantage of existing phones systems and networks and won't require wiring or new boards to connect the each phone and micro.
1993	Originally structured around the old Microdata Pick-compatible systems business, the Hemel Hempstead company is now primarily a systems integrator, software and services company, buying up to 70% of its hardware from OEMs such as Encore Corp.
1993	In a surprise move, NEC Corp has approached Convex Corp and proposed that it market the Convex C3 minisupercomputers in Japan to plug the gap below its own SX3 supercomputers.
1993	Despite NEC's adherence to the MIPS Technologies Inc R-series RISC, which it fabricates, the move seems to move NEC inexorably towards the Hewlett-Packard Co Precision Architecture RISC camp, because Convex plans to use the part in forthcoming parallel machines, and NEC already markets the Stratus Inc fault-tolerant machines in Japan — having chosen the ill-starred Intel Corp 80860 as the basis of its first generation of RISC machines, Stratus plans to use Precision Architecture RISCs in future iterations of its systems.
1993	Meanwhile Hitachi Ltd says it is to join Kalieda Labs Inc, the joint venture between IBM Corp and Apple Inc to exploit multimedia technology.
1993	Kubota Corp, whose Kubota Co unit builds its Titan graphics around the MIPS Technologies Inc R-series RISC, and also manufactures Tricord Systems Inc's 80486-based servers under licence, says that it will eventually stop using both processors in favour of Digital Equipment Corp's Alpha RISC.
1993	Kubota was the very first to declare for the Alpha RISC, and the Japanese farm equipment manufacturer says it plans to market DEC in Japan and the US.
1993	‘We see DEC's Alpha chip as the choice for the next generation of ,’ Kubota said, suggesting that the expanded agreement with DEC will be completed later on this month.
1993	The general feeling is that no one company fits the bill, but the combined market capitalisation of Microsoft Corp and Intel Corp now exceeds that of IBM by 50%, and one well-supported suggestion is a triumvirate of Microsoft, Intel and Apple Inc — in other words IBM's former strategic partner.
1993	The company where it once held over 20% of the equity, and its current desktop partner — as analyst Hesh Wiener comments, in mythology, the gods eat their children, in it's the other way round.
1993	John Kemeny, co-creator with Thomas Kurtz of the Basic language at Dartmouth College, has died of a heart attack in Lebanon, New Hampshire; he was 66.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc shares fell $1.75 to $19.125 late Monday last week after the company said Jay Richards resigned as chief operating officer and senior vice-president: he says he's off to pursue other interests.
1993	Apple Inc has lost Roger Heinen, head manager of the Macintosh Software Architecture Division, responsible for Macintosh System 7, to Microsoft Corp, where he will become VP Database and Development Tools.
1993	Users of Europe (CUE), a user group that's been around for some time on an informal basis, has gone official: it has drafted a constitution and has a steering committee working on making it formal.
1993	It has renamed the stuff DB.h++ and will continue reseller relationships with .
1993	Apple Inc, IBM Corp and DEC have cut their prices 40% in Japan, making things highly uncomfortable for microcomputer leader NEC.
1993	Reports filtered out of the latest MacWorld in San Francisco about an Apple Inc project, code named Cat in the Hat, that aims to port the Apple ToolBox, Apple's crown jewels, the source of the Mac interface, over to IBM Corp's AIX in six months, to Hewlett-Packard Co HP-UX in nine months and to Sun Microsystems Inc Sparc machines after that.
1993	However one body now in place is Enrico Pesatori, who last week traded in his spurs as president and chief executive officer of the Groupe Bull SA-owned Zenith Data Systems Inc to ride herd on Digital Equipment Corp's personal business as vice president and general manager of the company's new PC business unit.
1993	IBM will position PC-DOS as its low-end operating system, OS/2 2.0 and the planned microkernel Workplace OS as mid-range systems, and AIX 3.0 Unix as an option for workstations and large multiprocessing .
1993	Personal wars victim Everex Systems Inc, which hoisted the white flag and filed for Chapter 11 protection on January 4th, is planning to sell off its Unix operating systems arm, Esix Systems, to an unidentified application software publisher.
1993	WordPerfect Corp, one of the biggest and most successful companies still privately held, will lose its virginity early this year when it files to go public on the Big Board of the New York Exchange, US PC Week reports.
1993	The two companies have announced a side deal to Novell's pending acquisition of Unix System Labs, that will see Novell and AT&T co-developing and co-marketing products that link their core businesses: networks and business phones (UX No 418).
1993	The technology will take advantage of existing phones systems and networks and won't require wiring or new boards to connect each phone and micro.
1993	Taligent Inc, the Apple Inc-IBM Corp joint venture that is busy turning Apple's Pink object-oriented operating environment into a fully-fledged product, is well ahead of schedule in the development effort and now expects to start shipping the thing next year rather than in 1995, the Wall Street Journal reports.
1993	Bell Labs spin-out Programmed Logic Corp, Somerfield, New Jersey, has released its High Performance File System (HPFS) for Intel Corp machines running Unix SVR4 from Consensys Inc, Dell Corp, Esix Inc, Microport Inc and UHC Inc as well as Univel Inc's UnixWare.
1993	The environment includes Tivoli/Works to manage basic system resources; Tivoli/Courier for distributing software updates; Tivoli/Sentry to monitor, spot and correct problems on local and remote ; and the Tivoli/Application Extension Facility toolkit for modifying and customising the other applications.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co last week cut prices on its Vectra personal and servers by up to 22% and launched a series of bundled packages in its Precision Architecture 7100 RISC-based workstations and X-stations at prices starting at $3,500 per user.
1993	Gradient Technology, Hudson, Massachusetts, author of an Open Software Foundation Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) product for Windows 3.1, is negotiating with Novell Inc and Apple Inc to develop DCE products in their environments and is considering a DCE-Lite version for MS-DOS, according to Reseller News.
1993	The cross-licensing pact calls for NCD to resell NetManage's NEWT, a TCP/IP communication protocol stack for Windows-based personal , and its Chameleon and Chameleon/NFS complete TCP/IP application suites that bring Windows machines into the network computing environment.
1993	NetManage will in turn resell Network Computing's PC-Xview X server products for Windows- and MS-DOS-based machines, and the PC-Xremote software, which provides high-speed access to remote personal over serial lines.
1993	Compagnie des Machines Bull SA got a most dispiriting Christmas present on Christmas Eve when the US General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals snatched the $740.3m Desktop IV US Air Force personal contract away from Bull's Buffalo Grove, Illinois-based Zenith Data Systems.
1993	Zenith only won the three-year contract to supply 300,000 as a result of the government's cancelling its earlier decision to award it to CompuAdd Corp of Austin, Texas, and Sysorex Information Systems, Falls Church, Virginia.
1993	Other companies that protested the award include Apple Inc, Electronic Data Systems Corp, Memorex Telex NV, International Data Products Corp and Government Technology Services Inc.
1993	Richard Page, who co-founded Next Inc with Steve Jobs and was its top hardware executive, has resigned from the company, one of at least six departures in recent months, saying he's ‘burnt out.’
1993	Seems Novell Inc missed a first call of the open systems boat back in its dim and distant proprietary past, when Reading, Berkshire-based X/Open Co Ltd was casting around for inter face technology that could tie personal networks into open systems.
1993	Erstwhile Sequent Systems Corp president Scott Gibson is now chairman of Adaptive Solutions Inc, a Beaverton, Oregon start-up with a special-purpose parallel processing machine called CNAPS meant for image and speech processing.
1993	Irvine, California-based Pick Systems in its umpteenth resurgence has rehired two of its old lieutenants: Richard Lauer, who's been off for six years at Sequoia Systems Inc, returns as vice president, sales and Tim Holland, credited with many of Pick's technical developments, returns from stints at Sequoia and Concurrent Corp to be senior vice president, technology.
1993	In the US, Random House/Times Book is going to turn up next month with a $22 volume called Wars, How the West Can Win in a Post-IBM World, a blueprint for how America can retain supremacy in IT.
1993	Intel has five beta companies for Pentium, including IBM and Unisys, and the list undoubtedly includes Compaq Corp, which dived out of the ACE consortium on condition of the Pentium.
1993	Taking a leaf out of NCR Corp's book of strategies, Unisys Corp will next week unveil the first of a new line of highly configurable Intel Corp and EISA-based personal that, with few if any changes, will magically turn into Unix-run workstations and entry-level servers early in the second quarter.
1993	Don't shed too many tears for the publishers of magazines and newsletters that major on the IBM Corp market: their readers need aid, comfort and advice more than ever now that the giant's feet of clay have been so mercilessly exposed.
1993	As the whole of continental Europe is dragged into recession by Germany, all its biggest companies bar ICL Plc are confronting a crisis severely aggravated by the giant shadow cast by the down fallen IBM.
1993	Operating in a bleeding French market, Compagnie des Machines Bull SA has a rapidly vanishing mainframe base, personal problems that only seem to have been exacerbated by the acquisition of Zenith Data Systems, which looks like a source of profitless volume, and a Unix strategy that is only just getting off the ground.
1993	Back across the Atlantic, can Apple Inc escape the taint that threatens to stain most of IBM's other partners?
1993	Unix vendor Sequent Systems Inc last week announced details of a new line of symmetric multprocessing systems running Microsoft Corp's Windows NT operating system which will come in at the low-end of its product range.
1993	Sequent believes the long term success of NT hinges on its support for client/server protocols and the ability to bring personal users on to the network.
1993	Sequent suggests giving away LAN Manager with NT as one option for Microsoft to get to bring personal users over to its networking solution and therefore to NT.
1993	IBM will be roundly lambasted next month when both Upside, the Silicon Valley insiders' publication, and the prestigious New York Times Magazine print ‘An Open Letter to the IBM Board of Directors’ by two consultants who are also co-authors of the new book Wars: How the West Can Win In a Post-IBM World (UX No 419).
1993	Authors Charles Ferguson and Charles Morris paint a dismal picture of the company's record across-the-board since the 1970s and presage a painful decline leading to a disaster of enormous proportions that will drag down with it IBM stockholders, employees, suppliers, the US industry at large and the nation as a whole.
1993	Encore Corp must be wondering whether it did the right thing in selling the Annex server product line to Xylogics Inc.
1993	The Burlington, Massachusetts company already has OEM agreements on the things from ICL Plc, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, NCR Corp, Sequent Systems Inc, Intergraph Corp and Unisys Corp, and now Sun Microsystems Inc has joined the party.
1993	Its Sun Microsystems Corp unit last week announced the Network Terminal Server, which enables 64 terminals or other serial peripheral devices to to be connected ‘easily and economically’ anywhere on a Unix host-based local area network.
1993	Serial Line Internet Protocol and Compressed SLIP support remote personal and X Window System terminals.
1993	Unix System Labs says Reseller News was ‘looking way beyond its headlights — or ours’ last week when it said USL may adopt all or part of the Open Software Foundation's Mach 3 microkernel.
1993	IBM, for example, has already decided to adopt Mach 3 to go under not only AIX Unix, but also under OS/2 with its Workplace Shell, and under the Taligent operating system it is developing with Apple Inc, and demonstrated OS/2, AIX, Windows and MS-DOS applications running on the microkernel at Comdex/Fall.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has swung back on the offensive in the US with a predatory enhanced workstation trade-in programme, which it says accepts the broadest range of workstations, personal and X terminals in part exchange for new Precision Architecture RISC workstations and X stations.
1993	The new TradeUp ‘93 programme will run for the full year and accepts units from Sun Microsystems Inc, Digital Equipment Corp, IBM Corp, Silicon Graphics Inc, Apple Inc and 80386 and 80486-based personal for up to 30% off the price of eligible Hewlett-Packard systems.
1993	NCR Corp has long been interested in offering a high degree of fault-tolerance on its , and its final line of mainframes, the 9800s, were claimed to be fault-tolerant .
1993	Lenexa, Kansas-based LDS Inc says that almost any personal connected via serial hardware can transfer files and other data between any popular Unix-type system using EMPath, its new communications package.
1993	It also has some integration work underway designed to tie-in its servers more closely with workstations from NeXT , following the reseller agreement it announced last year.
1993	The company has also established a Select Partners programme on the UK for the AViiON range, signing up four specialist resellers, ACT Network Si, BLCMP Library Services Ltd, Trinity Services and Weir Systems.
1993	Birmingham-based ACT and Profiles Ltd of Coventry will also act as CLARiiON Select partners.
1993	Boston's Integrated Solutions Inc will provide SunSoft Open Look Intrinsics Toolkit (OLIT 3.1) for HP 700s and DEC Alpha AXP workstations to simplify porting applications between the different environments.
1993	Pick Systems in its umpteenth resurgence has rehired two of its old lieutenants: Richard Lauer, who's been off for six years at Sequoia Systems Inc, returns as vice president, sales and Tim Holland, credited with many of Pick's technical developments, returns from stints at Sequoia and Concurrent Corp to be senior vice president, technology.
1993	The Cetia SA subsidiary of Thomson-CSF SA, which specialises in VME workstations and processor boards for real-time applications, last week introduced the first based on the IBM Corp-Motorola Inc PowerPC 601 microprocessor.
1993	With IBM, Motorola and Apple, we have the two largest personal producers in the world and the second largest manufacturer of microprocessors.
1993	Cetia expects to announce a PowerPC-based graphics board and a graphic single-board in the second quarter.
1993	Logical members include Tadpole Technology plc, Harris Systems Division, Groupe Bull SA and Thomson CSF: they're being asked to kick in $1m apiece in the first year, the fee will drop in the second.
1993	Dell Corp and Tandy Corp have been mentioned as possibles.
1993	Silicon Graphics maintains it is still a technical, rather than a commercial Unix supplier and has its sights set firmly on the Cray Y-MP and Convex Corp user community with its latest offerings.
1993	Compatible include the new Japanese OADG standard machines.
1993	OEM customers include the Japanese representatives of Compaq Inc, AST Research Inc, Acer Corp, Tricord Systems Inc and Dell Corp.
1993	Hitachi Ltd already includes Santa Cruz products in its list of packages supported on its Flora series of personal , and a number of systems integrators including Yamagiwa Data, Intelligent Wave, and Software Products Asia have been enlisted.
1993	Santa Cruz has to date kept a very low profile in Japan, although it has had a product available on NEC 9800 series personal for some years.
1993	If it picks an insider or a retiree, then we will all be back to writing the company's obituary in three months' time so it has to be an outsider, and one name canvassed that should be crossed off the list at once is that of ‘Neutron’ Jack Welch, boss of General Electric Co — not because he doesn't have the capability but because he does not have a background in the industry.
1993	John Sculley at Apple Inc is another name that has been canvassed, and he is the exception that proves the rule that an outsider can't run a company, but he came in fascinated by the business and devoted all his efforts in the early days learning about it for himself rather than relying on his minions, something no-one taking over IBM now has time to do.
1993	The same applies to Eckhard Pfeiffer, who has certainly turned Compaq Corp around for the time being, but has not been in the job long enough to demonstrate proven staying power.
1993	Our choice would be a former IBMer who has carved out a successful career running another company — Comdisco Inc chief Ken Pontikes is already facing up to the same problems besetting IBM, and despite his protestations, there's always Ross Perot.
1993	Beaverton, Oregon-based Sequent Systems Inc says the rise in its profits for the year to January 2 1993 is a result of company restructuring, and a re-focus on high-end business.
1993	Now we read in Reseller News that Microsoft may sell NT developer kits to some 100,000 software developers at the US Defense Department through DOD contractor AT&T.
1993	The company claims NT is now up on 12 symmetric multiprocessing systems, 395 different personal models plus the DEC Alpha AXP and Mips RISC chips.
1993	Demonstrating what a simple change at the top can achieve, Compaq Corp, which had sales of $3,200m last year and had been heading back towards the $2,000m mark under the previous regime, last week announced that it had made it through the $4,000m sales barrier for 1992, with profits up 34% in the most recent quarter.
1993	The company says that this year it plans to introduce an ‘impressive’ number of new products, including ‘entry-level to technologically advanced’desktop and notebook personal , printers and servers, and has development efforts under way to address emerging technologies such as Intel Corp's Pentium processor, ones with full motion video and stereo sound, pen-based machines and ‘other small form-factor devices,’the firm promised.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp has responded to Hewlett-Packard Co's big trade-in programme with up to 40% trade-in credit for people moving to the new Sparcstation 10/Model 30, where Hewlett is offering a maximum 30% (UX No 420).
1993	IBM Corp has turned to Islandia, New York-based Associates International Inc for enterprise-wide systems management for the RS/6000 Unix family.
1993	The two have an agreement under which Associates will provide RS/6000 users with CA-Unicenter for Unix, becoming, so it claims, the only systems software vendor to provide enterprise-wide systems management connecting MVS, VM and VSE-based mainframes with OS/2, AIX and other Unix systems, enabling data to be managed from any workstation on the network.
1993	CA-Unicenter is also being developed for Sun Microsystems Inc, Sequent Systems Inc and Tandem Inc machines, and for Novell Inc's NetWare, the company noted.
1993	Next Inc is going try to stage a NeXTWorld Expo without leaning on Uniforum by holding it at the same time like it did last year.
1993	Suggesting that that Next Inc may indeed err on the software of its business — if it can find enough takers for NextStep-on-Intel (UX 414)— the company says it is re-organising its corporate operations to ‘accomodate a much larger software role’.
1993	Tandem Inc has introduced a software tool kit that it claims extends transaction processing on its proprietary Guardian 90-based NonStop machines to desktop systems in client-server environments.
1993	The Toolkit also includes Remote Server Call, which now supports clients running under the Hewlett-Packard HP-UX operating system, Sun Microsystems SunOS, the Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix and the Apple Inc Macintosh System: the application programming interface already supports IBM Corp's OS/2 with Presentation Manager, and MS-DOS and Windows.
1993	The company pitches Acrobat as an alternative to the ubiquitous ASCII — American Standard Code for Information Interchange — file exchange protocol used by most operators.
1993	PDF Writer, geared for Macintosh and personal running Windows, will convert a file to PDF using the same procedure as used to print a document.
1993	Still positioned as a technical, rather than a commercial Unix supplier — and with its sights set firmly on the Cray Y-MP and Convex Corp user community — the Mountain View, California company has introduced Challenge and Power Challenge server systems, claiming Cray-equivalent performance at a tenth of the price.
1993	Although Irix 5.0 conforms to the Mips ABI, Mips users running Risc/OS 5.0 or lower will have to recompile applications for the new release.
1993	Sunnyvale, California-based MasPar Corp wants us to know it shipped 13 MP-2 massively parallel machines in 1992, calling it a ‘faster-than-projected start-up’ for a box introduced in October 1992.
1993	According to the Japanese press, the move would be designed to counter Apple Inc ARM chip for Newton and AT&T Hobbit.
1993	However, Microsoft now says it will soon formally announce support for the Sun Microsystems Inc PC-NFS networking technology that allows personal users to share files and services with Unix systems.
1993	The PC/2e has been targeted at Windows and NetWare markets until now — the Unix version includes serial ports for connecting personal local area networks using TCP/IP.
1993	Emeryville, California-based Mobius Corp has introduced a new family of 66MHz Intel Corp-based 486DX2 graphics workstations, called the Protege series.
1993	Informix UK marketing manager, Tony Lacey-Thompson, said ‘we can't afford to ignore Microsoft's 90% stronghold over the personal market.
1993	It reportedly uses centrally maintained configuration information along with dynamically gathered performance information to choose the best suited for each application.
1993	Also out at Hannover will be a new version of SNI's UTM distributed transaction monitor for Unix, backup and spool and a modularised version of the Sinix operating system for use on personal .
1993	SNI has spent years attempting to unify conflicting technology inherited when Siemens AG, SNI's parent company, fused its Data and Information Systems Group with Nixdorf AG.
1993	The technology, based on the Smalltalk language, is designed to enable programmers to develop object-oriented applications that can be used simultaneously by multiple users.
1993	REED CANCELS WHICH SHOW — UNIX SHOW UNDER REVIEW
1993	In the UK, the Reed Exhibition Co Ltd has cancelled one of its biggest events, the PC-oriented Which Show, which was to have taken place at the NEC, Birmingham this April.
1993	The cancellation coincides with the closure of Reed's and electronics division at Richmond, Surrey.
1993	The new company, Advanced Research International SA, or ACRI, of Lyon, has signed a co-operation agreement with DEC France under which DEC will take an undisclosed minority stake to seal the pact.
1993	While 1992 volume sales of Unix in France grew between 30% and 35%, turnover from this sector only increased between 0% and 3%.
1993	Descharreaux said the trends that characterise the personal industry — growth of unit sales, but flat revenues and diminished profits — are beginning to show in the Unix market too.
1993	The Model 6220, based on the RS/6000 Model 220 is an entry-level desktop server, intended to provide an imaging system at a price comparable with many standard personal servers, but running the image management and WorkFlo software.
1993	The Peruvian headquarters of IBM Corp were severely damaged and at least 17 people were injured after urban guerrillas of the Maoist Shining Path terrorist organisation detonated a powerful car bomb in front of the company's offices in southeast Lima.
1993	AL/1 enables users to analyse and migrate mainframe-based Cobol data to personal .
1993	Unix SVR4.2-on-Intel house, Consensys Corp, Toronto, Canada, has signed a boatload of European distributors for its Consensys 4.2 implementation of Unix System Lab's desktop operating system: Garmhausen and Partner Belgium, Sterrebeek, Belgium; RCM Company AB, Karlstad, Sweden; Garmhausen & Partner GmbH, Bonn, Germany (for Croatia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovenia); Future Soft, Paris, France and Onsite , Allershausen, Germany — the rest of Europe will be handled by Consensys’ European operation in Reading, UK. +44 734 833241.
1993	Embedded Sparc system supplier, Force Inc, Campbell, California is to OEM graphics accelerators from UK firm Du Pont Pixel, Egham, Surrey.
1993	Ingres is being ported to the Topsy loosely-coupled at the London City University's Parallel Applications Centre: Topsy runs a distributed Unix-compatible kernel called Meshix, and uses Motorola 68030 or MIPS R3000 chips.
1993	Inglewood, California-based Locus Computing Corp has recruited French company Pacer Europe SA, Paris, to distribute PC-Interface for Apple Inc systems across Europe: PC-Interface enables MS-DOS, Windows, Macintosh and NetWare users to share files, applications and print services on Unix servers.
1993	The lab, to cost $20m over four years, will be in Grenoble and will employ about 150 researchers working on advanced methods of retrieving and translating documents into different languages.
1993	According to ROCC Ltd, the Unix market in the Czech and Slovak republics is starting to move because customers there have more cash to spend on new systems than other central European countries.
1993	The firm has won contracts worth approximately $100,000 to supply Motorola Unix to four companies in the Czech republic.
1993	Motorola Group has appointed systems integrator Datapoint UK Ltd, London, as a reseller for its Unix RISC 88000-based 8000 systems in the UK.
1993	The Hungarian Central Statistics Office, has upgraded its centre signing an $11.5m deal with Hewlett-Packard Co to replace its IBM Corp 4381 mainframe with Unix kit.
1993	Nashua, New Hampshire-based Storage Corp has introduced StorComp RAID 7 which features an asynchronous hard ware design with a real-time embedded operating system to control access to the disk drives and data flow to the host.
1993	Micro Decisionware Inc has agreed with NeXT Inc to provide connectivity between NeXTStep and its Database Gateway product line.
1993	Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Stratus Inc has signed with Unix Systems Labs to sell and support USL's version of the Open Software Foundation's Distributed Computing Environment, DCE/SVR4.
1993	Marietta, Georgia-based, Maxtech Technologies Inc has launched, Double Vision, remote control software for Intel Corp iAPX-86 Unix platforms: Double Vision allows one user to control another user's terminal — both screens look identical to the user and the terminal's keyboards are interchangeable.
1993	Locus Computing Corp has been given a grant by the US National Science Foundation to investigate system software optimised for networked portable .
1993	Oracle7 and trusted Oracle7, the secure implementation, are now generally available on Data General Corp, DEC, Fujitsu Ltd, Hewlett-Packard Co, IBM Corp, ICL plc, NCR Corp, Pyramid Technologies Inc, Sequent Inc, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG and Sun Microsystems Inc machines.
1993	Carrera Inc, Laguna Hills, California, is delivering a Mips Technologies Inc R4000 motherboard for PCs running Microsoft Corp's NT: the Cobra ARCsystem is priced at $5,000. +1 714 545 3117.
1993	The $820m figure includes revenue from sales of X terminals, personal X servers, graphical user interfaces and development tools.
1993	Revenue from sales of personal X server packages rose to $33m, a growth of 217% over the 1991 figure.
1993	Apple Inc, IBM Corp and Novell Inc are reported to have joined forces on development of an alternative to the Microsoft Corp object passing, Object Linking and Embedding 2.0 specification.
1993	The project, which may be the subject of announcements around the UniForum trade show next month, is among a number of similar joint developments Oracle has been working on in conjunction with symmetrical multi-processor (SMP) hardware suppliers, including Pyramid rivals Sequent Systems Inc and NCR Corp (UX No 325).
1993	Sources say, as we suspected at the time, that any suggestion that Hewlett-Packard Co might be interested in licensing Next Inc's NextStep interface for the PA-RISC is a lot of executive hot air (UX No 418).
1993	HP is known to have been casing the industry for new directions — a process witnessed by the winding down of its New Wave interface efforts — and is now thought to be closing in for a piece of Taligent Inc (UX No 417), the Apple Inc/IBM Corp joint venture on object-oriented operating system technology.
1993	Compaq Corp is in a unique position to secure government contracts in Poland, after signing a ‘preferred supplier’ deal with the Polish Council of Ministers office.
1993	As 30% of this is generated from the public sector, Compaq has, at a stroke, become the front-runner for contracts worth tens of million dollars each year, especially given the local preference for Unix server-backed personal networks.
1993	Gossip that Next Inc might abandon its hardware business to focus on its NextStep object-oriented operating environment UX No 419) has proved all too valid and last week the company confirmed that it is to abandon manufacture of its workstations.
1993	‘We've got a real head start on the rest of the industry,’ with NextStep, Jobs said, noting that its only real competitors for top-line operating system software will be Microsoft Corp with its forthcoming Cairo, and the Taligent Inc alliance between Apple Inc and IBM Corp.
1993	The letter to manufacturers estimates that personal based on Pentium will list for $5,000 for desktop models and $7,000 for mid-range systems.
1993	Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, is developing a multiprocessing personal that'll start life with up to four Intel Corp Pentiums, running Microsoft Corp's Windows NT operating system.
1993	DEC is out trying to entice the top 100 personal applications over as well as VMS, OSF and Sun programs, maybe 1,000 vendors in all.
1993	The Open Software Foundation has tapped Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Integrated Solutions Inc to help it develop the next version of Motif.
1993	PC-NFS is an implementation of Sun Microsystems Inc's widely used Network File System mechanism which operates over Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol technologies and allows personal to access resources on Unix systems.
1993	Santa Clara, California-based NeXT Inc is the latest to beat a path to the door of Auspex Systems Inc and will resell Auspex NFS servers under a joint marketing agreement.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc is to market Software AG's Adabas database management system and Natural fourth generation development environment on its Symmetry 2000 Unix machines.
1993	Sweden's multinational Kockums Systems AB has picked Objectivity/DB as the object database for the next generation of SteerBear, its maritime CAD/CAM system.
1993	Mass storage and disk drive manufacturer Iomega Corp, Roy, Utah, is to distribute TransferPro, a file exchange software program from Digital Instrumentation Technology Inc, Los Alamos, New Mexico: TransferPro allows non-network users to transfer files between workstations, personal and Apple Macintoshes — prices start at $350 on Sun Microsystems Inc and Silicon Graphics Inc workstations.
1993	Marlborough, Massachusetts-based, Stratus Systems Inc says its XA/R fault tolerant processing systems now support Financial Data Systems Inc's financial trading software, Caesar.
1993	Somerset, New Jersey-based, Programmed Logic Corp has released a transparent file compression package for the Intel Corp iAPX- 86-based Unix personal market: the Desktop File System is a plug-and-play file system which compresses data before storing it on disk, doubling the disk capacity of laptops, desktops, and notebook running a Unix operating system, the company says.
1993	Fujitsu Ltd's Unix commercialisation group in Australia has developed a prototype performance monitoring system called Open Eyes which can support networks of integrated Unix systems from the personal level to the mainframe.
1993	Interleaf Inc, Waltham, Massachusetts, says it has a new object-oriented document management package called RDM, for Unix,personal and Apple Macs which supports SQL and SGML.
1993	IBM Corp is to market Canadian firm Hummingbird Communications Ltd's HCL Exceed/w personal X-Windows server for Micrososft Corp's Windows on its systems worldwide: meanwhile, Surrey, Woking-based Wick Hill IMX Ltd is to resell HCL's PC X server software in the UK.
1993	Reseller News last week elevated to front-page news that little tid-bit we gave you weeks ago about Microsoft Corp and Novell Inc having kick the idea of merger around (UX No 409).
1993	Why was Apple Inc prepared to grant IBM Corp the right to offer machines that include the Macintosh graphical user interface as part of the PowerPC agreement?
1993	Commenting on the chipmaker's 1986 technology exchange agreement with IBM, a top Intel Corp executive commented to the authors of Wars that IBM's ‘Not Invented Here’ mentality was so strong we could ‘trade them anything and be pretty sure they wouldn't use it.’
1993	The company also says it's currently in negotiations with some five to 10 brand-name personal firms in the US, Korea, Japan and Taiwan to do Alpha boxes.
1993	The order, won by DEC and its prime contractor Sciences Corporation, calls for $4.2m worth of DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP machines immediately with the possibility of it going to 2,500 boxes, a value of $30m, over the next four years.
1993	Companies like Next Inc have found the approach familiar and may yet get to feel further discomfited.
1993	Its also going to roll out ex-Next linchpin Bud Tribble, now their vice president of end user software, for the first time to talk about future directions.
1993	Pyramid Technology Corp will adhere by next month, Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG by mid year and Concurrent Corp by early 1994.
1993	Outside the financial world, customers in Spain are ignorant of the advantages of fault-tolerant , and apart from government and telecommunications bodies, few are interested in Unix either, although this market is growing, according to technological consultant for Stratus Inc, Carlos Morales.
1993	Users know little about fault-tolerant technology in general, he stated, and even less about actual hardware, although Tandem Inc's offerings are somewhat more familiar.
1993	The primary concentrators are attached to secondary concentrators, which are, in turn, connected by a telephone line to the central at Cassa's headquarters.
1993	The two 1930s-style comic book murder mysteries are available on CD-ROM and run on Windows machines, Sparcstations and Amiga personal .
1993	It presently runs under Windows 3.0 and upwards on personal ; Unisys Corp ST-1000 kiosk terminals; DEC VMS and Ultrix systems and Hewlett-Packard Co 9000 Series 700 and Data General Corp AViiON workstations under OSF/Motif.
1993	A computer-based maths teaching package is also being jointly developed by Apricot Ltd and Birmingham City Council in the UK using IconAuthor.
1993	And as testimony to its ‘user friendliness’, an enterprising British Airways employee — a cabin crew member rather than programmer — recently developed a safety training course in just 12 weeks using the system.
1993	Motorola Inc's 88000 RISC family seemed to have lost out at Harris Systems Corp when the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based firm announced it was switching allegiances to the IBM/Apple/Motorola PowerPC architecture (UX No 407), however the company now says it will roll-out 88110 versions of its NightHawk real-time machines by the end of March.
1993	The Titan architecture came originally from graphics specialist Ardent Inc which merged with arch rival Stellar Inc to form Stardent back in the autumn of 1990.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp has rallied a Laguna Hills, California start-up, Carrera Inc to its Windows NT-on-Alpha cause and the company will begin selling motherboards built around the 150MHz Alpha AXP RISC chip in the third quarter, according to US PC Week.
1993	Personal and workstation manufacturers are expected to be able to use the board to build powerful file servers in the $10,000 price bracket.
1993	Meantime, the agreement under which Encore Corp may switch to the Alpha from the Motorola Inc 88000 that it presently uses is apparently not a done deal yet.
1993	The open client initiative involves co-operative development work and marketing agreements, primarily in the US, with many key personal software and hardware suppliers.
1993	Although the thing is initially being tested under OS/2 2.0 and AIX, IBM plans to incorporate it in future operating systems and to do versions of the Distributed System Object Model for other systems — and the Taligent Inc joint venture with Apple Inc also has licence to the technology.
1993	Although the Taligent Inc environment is not due to ship until late 1994 or early 1995, the Apple Inc-IBM Corp joint venture faces heightened competition from Next Inc now that its options have shrunk to making a success of its NextStep environment, and a hot wind from Cairo — Microsoft Corp's Cairo, that is, is blowing down their neck.
1993	The San Jose, California-based outfit Axil is taking a leaf out of Compaq Corp's book and will only sell through resellers under the direction of sales and marketing vice president Dan Shaver who recently left a job with Sun as director of its channels strategy.
1993	In a bizarre twist in the saga of the failure of Supercomputer Systems Inc, the company last week announced that it had abandoned efforts to find new investors to keep the company alive — and then Steve Chen immediately announced that he was forming a new company that will seek to create the world's fastest .
1993	Two rounds of venture capital funding have netted $3m — investors include France Telecomm's venture arm and Atlas Venture, a Dutch concern that helped Sequent Systems Inc into the world.
1993	UK market research firm, Ovum Ltd, London, believes the European market for desktop will grow from an installed base of 22 million in 1992 to 46 million by 1996.
1993	It reckons Unix will continue to dominate in the technical arena and says OS/2 will flourish at corporate sites where personal communications are important.
1993	Hall already claims to have customers downsizing from mainframes to client/server solutions based on personal and Suns using SunSelect's PC-NFS mechanism to migrate data.
1993	All are based on the personal technology Acer introduced last quarter, reportedly architected from the start to support Unix.
1993	BusinessWeek claims Compaq Corp and its 80486 interests, not any technical or manufacturing woes, are behind Intel Corp's decision to delay the Pentium until May (UX No 423).
1993	John Landry of Lotus Development Corp, Philippe Kahn of Borland International Inc and John Sculley of Apple Inc are also speaking.
1993	The Galileo group of end users and system integrators pushing for a common graphical front-end on different types of are to meet during the Uniforum show in San Francisco next month: a couple of the Baby Bells and Mitre Corp are said to be latest converts to the cause (UX Nos 415, 423).
1993	The suggestion is that COSI will pick up on the work of Taligent Inc, the object-oriented operating software joint venture between IBM and Apple Inc.
1993	With Hewlett-Packard Co heading for $18,800m turnover this year and Fujitsu Ltd at around the $26,000m mark, while Digital Equipment Corp looks hopefully to Alpha to rocket it off its $14,000m-a-year launchpad, the contenders to take over leadership of the mainstream industry from IBM Corp are lining up — and a major new round of mergers and acquisitions could be on the way.
1993	In the mid-range, its key products are derivative, coming from its ICL Plc affiliate and Sun Microsystems Inc, while in personal it is an also-ran in Japan, not visible in the US, and only a significant player in Europe by proxy via ICL.
1993	In Unix, it has succeeded in creating the impression that it has far more of the management, security and support capabilities in place than any of its competitors, and while this may not be entirely valid, time and again in the industry, winning the perception is nine tenths of the battle: in the 1970s, it was universally acknowledged among the cognoscenti that Burroughs Corp had by far the best mainframe architecture and operating software, but that did nothing to prevent the vast majority of its users migrating to IBM over time.
1993	IBM was perceived as the winner, just as today, even the things it does right are in trouble because IBM is perceived as the industry's most emphatic loser, and more and more people are talking seriously about the company being in danger of going the same way as Prime Inc, Wang Laboratories Inc and Control Data Corp.
1993	Because all of DEC's business is computer-related, it remains slightly bigger than Hewlett-Packard in — Hewlett has its medical electronics and instruments businesses as well, but are becoming more and more dominant with every year.
1993	IBM's personal business may be enormous, but it has never made very much money, and it is now more like a millstone than an asset.
1993	The company has only two attractive businesses now, the AS/400 at $14,000m or so a year, and the RS/6000, at barely $2,000m — which means that in the rankings above, the truly viable businesses of IBM lie between Hewlett-Packard and DEC.
1993	And Hewlett-Packard has shown itself willing to make regular infilling acquisitions as it has grown — the company was heavily castigated for the price it paid for Apollo Inc, but without Apollo, it would not be in anything like such a strong position today.
1993	The two other big diversified companies are Unisys Corp at $8,400m or so, and NCR Corp at $7,100m — only the same size as Apple Inc, a pure personal play with few designs on the data centre — and if AT&T Co is really serious about making it big in the industry, it will soon have to start thinking of buying NCR a present — and Unisys begins to look tempting now that James Unruh has finally got the company onto an even keel and Unisys' own mainframe millstones under control.
1993	One company that could still make an impact on the world market is Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG — but only if Siemens is serious about remaining — outside Germany — a force in the industry.
1993	Companies like Sequent Systems Corp and Pyramid Technology Corp are technologically compatible — but painfully small to make much difference, which suggests that a bold move for another technologically compatible company — with a nice sideline fit in telecommunications — Tandem Inc, is the smallest acquisition that would make a real difference — but it's hard to see cautious Siemens being that bold.
1993	They duly unveiled the initiative last week, but the only name they were able to add to their own was that of Sun Microsystems Corp.
1993	The aim of this is to use the Fibre Channel to share the processing of complex applications, such as stock market analyses among clustered — effectively providing a physical layer to underlie the Distributed Computing Environment.
1993	According to Reseller News it will incorporate parts of both the Motion Picture and the Joint Photographic Experts Groups algorithms, rendering it capable of running video at 30 frames a second without additional hardware.
1993	It will also handle both little and big endian byte ordering so as to be able to run personal operating systems such as Windows NT as well as Unix, although the company denied that it had any plans to support NT on it — the capability is simply there if anyone wants it in the future, the company said.
1993	It has a standard microprocessor bus interface, and is claimed to execute 20G-operations per second, so that it can recognise thousands of text characters a second compared with 10 to 100 per second for a personal running character recognition software.
1993	The Ni1000 can be combined with a personal for fast character recognition, Intel says.
1993	The consortium is breaking out education, customer support, facilities, corporate communications and sales.
1993	Galaxy currently supports Motif, Open Look, IBM CUA, X-Windows, the Object Management Group's CORBA specification, Open Software Foundation's Distributed Computing Environment, Sun Microsystems Inc's Open Network Computing environment, Microsoft Corp's Object Linking and Embedding specification and the Apple Inc Mac.
1993	Apple Inc is apparently negotiating with third party manufacturers — including Radius Inc and DayStar Digital Inc — to develop PowerPC versions of the Macintosh for specific markets, according to Reseller News.
1993	It also made a point of saying the chips would let personal applications reach their full potential under Microsoft Corp Windows NT.
1993	AS DEC AIMS NEW ALPHA AT PERSONAL , NT MARKET
1993	As well as the 150MHz Alpha AXP machines designed to run Microsoft Corp's Windows NT, Digital Equipment Corp has begun developing a new line of Alpha microprocessors addressed specifically at the personal market, according to US PC Week.
1993	The first EISA-based Alpha AXP personal , which include a minitower and a desktop, are expected to offer better price/performance than systems based on Intel's Pentium processor — the superscalar Alpha executes 300 MIPS at 150MHz where Pentium is rated at over 100 MIPS.
1993	It looks like Taiwan's government-backed and Communication Research Laboratories (CCL) has a four-chip set design aimed long-term at Texas Instruments Inc's MicroSparc, according to a story in last week's Electronic Engineering Times.
1993	CURRENCY PROBLEMS HIT SALES OF IN RUSSIA
1993	Given the dire state of the rouble, sales in Russia now tend to be mostly to those pockets of the economy still generating hard currency.
1993	Yet despite the amount of money generated in the region, it has remained largely impervious to the attempts of local companies to establish retail operations.
1993	Much of the business in Siberia is still done direct with Moscow.
1993	In most cases when are purchased by enterprises, it is to run administrative systems like bookkeeping.
1993	The number of firms selling in the region has dropped markedly since January 1992.
1993	Tariffs on Taiwanese goods are all lower than those on Western European or US imports, giving the so-called ‘white personal ’ an in-built premium over ‘yellow’machines.
1993	Given the margins on most deals and the time it takes to organise shipment, this will bankrupt most companies.
1993	With the merger of DCM Services Ltd and Kode International Plc's Kode Ltd now complete, the company has broadened its range of consultancy services, and is looking for acquisitions in the UK.
1993	The company won't lean towards Kode ' traditional markets — local and central government — preferring to focus on the more lucrative commercial sector.
1993	DCM's activities have been reorganised into four sectors including an open systems planning unit developed out of Kode ' government expertise.
1993	Milton Keynes, UK-based research firm Butler Bloor Ltd's latest tome on the IT industry looks at networking: peer-to-peer networking, server-based networking on personal and Unix platforms and network management systems.
1993	As far as personal networking is concerned, ‘there is little to choose from between Microsoft Corp LAN Manager and Novell Inc NetWare, though NetWare has the edge in performance,’ the report concludes.
1993	However, even with the tens of millions of personal and workstations in use around the world, networking and network usage still hasn't taken off in a big way, the report says, because two things are needed: multi-tasking operating systems and the means to develop client/server applications.
1993	Client/server applications are becoming a reality with performance problems being addressed by faster , faster LAN speeds and improving software.
1993	The arrival of desktop operating systems and client/server computing has coincided with the emergence of graphical interfaces, and now more often handle bit-mapped, rather than character-based environments.
1993	Global networks will be used by users first, the report concludes, whilst the owners of the highways — both public telephone companies and independent carries — which charge for traffic, ‘cannot fail to profit.’
1993	Major international telecommunications service providers are teaming under the auspices of the Network Management Forum to agree purchasing specifications for an open, standardised computing environment to support their network, service and business management needs — and with annual spending of $20,000m a year on systems, the parties involved have the muscle to impose any standard they set.
1993	It is targeted at mixed environments and X terminals and requires no special device drivers.
1993	Users of the ‘Pentium-ready’ personal systems which have been on sale since the middle of last year — Intel Corp 80486-based boxes with a Pentium upgrade socket — won't get their OverDrive Pentiums, code-named the P24T, which plugs into the socket, until next year (UX No 424).
1993	Although Next Inc has stumbled, Data General Corp, which last year signed to resell Next boxes, will maintain a relationship with Steve Jobs' firm — it says it was always more interested in the NextStep software anyway, and will market the environment on its OEMed 80486 personal once it becomes available.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc investor relations manager John Eldridge says Wall Street estimates for the company's 1993 earnings per share to run from $0.95 to $1.10 and that the company is comfortable with what range.
1993	These chips will also be used in single-board .
1993	Internal chip design, which began at the same time that HaL Systems started developing its own proprietary 64-bit Sparc chips, aims at producing a 500MHz microprocessor part by the fourth quarter of 1996.
1993	Apple Inc previewed its forthcoming Macintosh Application Services software for the PowerPC RISC chip last week at the launch of the new PowerPC supporters club Power Open Association Inc.
1993	Apple Inc will launch its first family of network file servers at CeBit, in Hannover, on March 25, according to US press reports.
1993	It will be sold through ICL's existing direct and indirect sales channels and in Europe by Technology Plc — its personal and peripherals subsidiary.
1993	The software also includes Hummingbird's XDK developer kit, which enables users to port applications to and from personal and Unix environments.
1993	The OSF/Motif Toolkit will enable users to develop Motif X Window clients on a personal rather than a remote host.
1993	Hummingbird will also introduce version 3.3 of exceed/W, its personal X Server software for Windows.
1993	Canoga Park, California-based Andromeda Systems Inc will demonstrate the SCSI CacheMaster, its software which adds cache memory and RAM to SCSI-based .
1993	Siemens AG is disputing a politically-sensitive article carried in The Wall Street Journal Europe on February 16, which claims that, for the first time, a top Siemens manager, Heinrich von Pierer, said he was looking for a strategic partner for ailing Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG: Pierer allegedly stated that he was not interested in a ‘one-sided partnership’, rather in one that involved ‘real co-operation’; according to Computerwoche, Siemens denied any claim that it was seeking shelter for Siemens Nixdorf under the umbrella of Japanese or US competitors, ‘like the other three European firms’; the Journal's London office says the paper is sticking by its story.
1993	ICL Plc chose Paris for the launch of what it called its biggest ever collection of personal and related products last week: the new ErgoLite desktops and note books and Ergo-Pro notebook to ErgoView terminals which come with a variety of ‘personalities’ or emulations — no prizes for guessing that the company is pushing the new product line's ergonomic design.
1993	Harris Inc and Tadpole Technology Ltd are principal members, spending a lesser $150,000 per annum.
1993	Further sponsors and at least one ‘multi-million unit company’, not expected to be in the mainstream systems business, is said to have signed up for PowerPC, and should reveal itself within two months, claimed PowerOpen officials.
1993	Clear seems to be all the rage these days, what with Miller Brewing coming out with a beer that not only tastes watered, but actually looks like water, a Clear Tab from the Coca Cola Co and Pepsi Co pushing something called Pepsi Crystal, so it's nice to see that IBM Corp is right up there with the trend — enter one of those hallowed and long-standing rooms these days and like as not you'll be able to see right across it with no Big Iron to impede the view — the transparent mainframe.
1993	Oracle Corp will team with Sun Microsystems Corp to develop and sell products and services for the pharmaceutical industry.
1993	Another name can be crossed firmly off the IBM Corp list: John Sculley, chairman of Apple Inc has now gone on the record saying ‘I would like to respond to the persistent rumours that I might leave Apple and go to IBM — I have told Apple's board of directors and our executive management team that I am not available or interested in being chief executive of IBM; I believe Apple has a tremendous opportunity to be extremely successful in the years ahead, and Apple will be the most important innovator and leader in the industry; 10 years ago this April I signed up to do a job, and there is still a lot that I would like to accomplish with all of us; I hope this statement will put to rest the speculation that I might go to IBM, and also serve as a clear message of the confidence that I have in Apple,’ he declared.
1993	SunSelect also announced SelectMail, an e-mail product that allows MS-DOS and Windows users to exchange mail files with other personal and Unix systems.
1993	The new version of PC-NFS,(UX No 418), has added support for Windows For Workgroups and NetWare device drivers, which enables personal to share applications, files, printers and e-mail across any TCP/IP or Sun ONC/NFS network, SunSelect says.
1993	It comes in two editions; one for Windows-based personal and the other for MS-DOS.
1993	iXOS, founded in 1988 by Hans Strach Zimmerman (ex Siemens) and Eberhard Faerber (founder of PCS Systems), is a privately-owned company that has been growing at a rate of 50% per year, employs 110 staff.
1993	Support for COSE came from across the industry, including Adobe, Autodesk, Associates, Computervision, Convex, Cray, EDS, Fujitsu, Hitachi, ICL, ICS, Ingres, Mead Data, OMG, Oki, Oracle, Samsung, Siemens-Nixdorf, Stratus, Sybase, Toshiba, Unisys, Unix International and XSoft.
1993	Elvis+ — apparently a Russian acronym standing for Electronic and Information Systems — is run as a private company 40 kilometres outside of Moscow, headed by Dr Alexander Galitsky, the chief designer of communications satellites for the Russian space programme and one of the top experts in wireless communications.
1993	He leads a team of some 53 noted Russian scientists.
1993	It will continue to assemble and test VS and secure systems products.
1993	Applications built with it will be portable across different graphical user interfaces and automatically run under Microsoft Corp's Windows, the Apple Inc Macintosh, OSF/Motif and other environments without changing any of the code.
1993	The Speech Commander Desktop coprocessor with digital signal processing includes a developers toolkit for creating speech interfaces under Unix and interfaces to workstations and personal over RS232 connections: prices start at $2,800 or $2,000 before April.
1993	Associates International Inc, Islandia, New York, is to license Cheyenne Software Inc's LAN storage technology device drivers into its network backup and archiving systems.
1993	HaL Systems Inc, Campbell, California, remains one of the most difficult companies to ferret information out of so we're grateful for even a glimmer of intelligence.
1993	This season, the scoring system is going high-tech thanks to a joint venture between Goole, Humberside-based press agency News Services and the Test and County Cricket Board.
1993	The new system, which should be in place by the end of this month, will replace the current pen and paper score sheet method with 30 laptop — one for each scorer — connected to a database.
1993	It runs on Compaq Corp Contura notebooks, complete with colour screens and internal and using BSD 386 Unix with X Window software, and has been designed with user friendliness in mind since the nation's cricket scorers are largely computilliterate 70- to 90-year-olds.
1993	This information is electronically mailed back to a central Sun Microsystems Inc database and a Compaq personal , held in News Services' offices.
1993	By 1995, Deutsche Bundespost Telekom intends a root-and-branch reorganisation of its data processing activities, by consolidating its 36 existing centres into six, and condensing its 45 applications development centres down to five.
1993	The programme is pitched at Fortune 1000 companies that have embraced open systems for strategic applications and the company suggests that it could develop a prototype to consolidate financial reporting from a company's strategic business units into corporate headquarters, connecting disparate environments into a client-server system.
1993	Acer Group Inc is hitching its wagon very closely to Microsoft Corp's Windows NT's star by developing a Mips Technologies Inc R4000/4400 six-chip chipset specifically for NT personal .
1993	Unir will now be able to negotiate with large vendors and software houses on AT&T's behalf to facilitate Calico's transfer to the commercial marketplace.
1993	Manufacturers — such as Compaq Corp, which rushed to discuss its Pentium plans in general terms, say they expect their first Pentium machines to list for as little as $4,500, half the price set for early model 80486 machines in 1989.
1993	In moving to a SmartStream client/server environment, most organisations would have to replace predominantly dumb end-user terminals with more expensive personal clients needed to run the Windows front end and other tools as well as buying a slew of different software packages, albeit from a single supplier.
1993	It supports Intel Corp 80486, Hewlett-Packard 9000, Data General AViiON, VAX 4000 through 8000 and OS/2 servers and personal clients running windows.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp and Encore Corp have advanced their Alpha RISC-centred collaboration, and DEC says it will incorporate and distribute the Fort Lauderdale company's high-speed Memory Channel, which directly links the memory subsystems of multiple node processors, and Infinity File System, which enables processors to view data stored on the disks of all the CPUs in a cluster as if it were part of a single database.
1993	Users of 80486-based personal may be able to run Macintosh System 7.1 on their machines if a project under way at Apple Inc comes to fruition.
1993	The initiative's primary goal was to provide greater Fortran functionality in massively parallel computing, especially in the fields of data parallel programming; the provision of non-uniform memory access costs on parallel ; and common code tuning application programming interfaces for different architectures.
1993	BuildNet includes pre-written versions of the two most popular neural network algorithms, Back-Propagation and Learning Vector Quantization 2, and an X Window-Motif-based graphical user interface designed to enable users to run the algorithms on the CNAPS and display test results graphically, even if they have no programming experience.
1993	The companies will develop interfaces between their respective management systems and Concert, which will conform to the Network Management Forum's OminiPoint specifications, based on the Common Management Interface Protocol, CMIP.
1993	The merger of Siemens AG and Nixdorf AG to form Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG was ‘the worst thing in the history of the corporation’ that had happened in Spain.
1993	The EISA bus was originally developed by a consortium of nine companies, led by Compaq Corp.
1993	It plans a broad-based programme for developing an industry of Notes partners, and a two-tier distribution strategy designed to make the thing readily available through distribution channels used by personal networking and application developers.
1993	DTK Inc says it has a Tsunami-based Sun Microsystems Inc workstation compatible with three times the graphics performance of the Sun Classic.
1993	Precision Software GmbH, the German distributor of Boulder, Colorado-based XVT Inc's graphical user interface builder is opening an operation in Swindon, UK, called Professional Software Ltd: the unit, run by former Cambridge Graphics sales and marketing manager, Paul Morgan, will take over XVT distribution from London-based Personal Workstations Ltd, which will become a customer for the product.
1993	In HP's view, ‘users don't give a damn about the kernel anyway, they need application programming interfaces,’ says European systems marketing manager Bernard Guidon.
1993	COSE — and IBM's attempt to woo HP to its object-oriented Taligent operating system effort with Apple Inc (UX No 425)— are thought to be manifestations of these talks.
1993	It is available in client and server implementations for Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcstations and IBM Corp RS/6000s along with 80386 and 80486 personal .
1993	Also promised soon is Version 1.5 of its personal package Rooms for Windows, to be followed by Rooms for X Window.
1993	DEC TO OFFER ALPHA, PENTIUM PERSONAL AT SAME PRICE
1993	With both the Intel Corp Pentium processor and its own Alpha RISC chip ready to enter the personal market this year, Digital Equipment Corp is expected to get around the problem by offering parallel lines of nearly identical systems based on the two chips, US PC Week reports.
1993	Pricing for the two-processor EL98 begins at $340,000, the same price as the single processor Y-MP EL, and can be expanded to eight processors; existing Y-MP ELs can be upgraded to the new version; Cray says that it has taken five orders for the new machines, and expects to introduce the next generation of its super family by the second half of 1994.
1993	AS CRAY RUSHES OUT SMALL CRAY-3s TO EARN VITAL CASH
1993	Meanwhile, Cray Corp, Colorado Springs, says it will start shipping its first scaled-down versions of the much-delayed Cray-3 in a bid to raise cash.
1993	A group of 15 European firms in a range of businesses have come together to create the European Software Institute to improve skills in developing software.
1993	In Europe it will move through Bacher, Bytek GmbH, DSD SA, ComTrad International, Merisel Europe, Scribona Sverige AB, Morse Ltd and Technology plc.
1993	SunSoft says Solaris x86 will run on Intel Corp-based Acer, ALR, Grid, Olivetti, Apricot, Compaq Corp, Gateway, IBM, NCR and NEC machines even though they don't have OEMs deals with these companies.
1993	Tatung Science & Technology Inc, San Jose is trying to extend the personal price war to colour workstations, and it is offering discounts of up to $2,800 on its new SuperSparc-based Super Compstation 7/30 Series.
1993	The Taiwanese company reckons that a similar system from Sun Microsystems Corp is currently list-priced at $20,500.
1993	President has increased its stake in Wang Laboratories Taiwan to 100% from 30% and bought a 51% stake in Wang Industrial, which manufactures personal .
1993	Wang Laboratories Taiwan has the right to use Wang's trademark in Taiwan and will make personal for Wang.
1993	The power and complexity of this latest offering makes it the world's fastest single-chip , according to its maker.
1993	ANSI C, C++ and Occam compilers are available for development on personal and Sun Microsystems Inc workstations.
1993	Among them were Parsytec GmbH and Parsys Ltd with their T9000-based supercomputers and Ektron Applied Imaging Inc with its Boss-9000 parallel processor.
1993	Chameleon chips will be aimed at the Transputer's traditional telecommunications markets, along with more mainstream markets, multimedia workstations and portables, database and computing servers.
1993	Parsys Ltd has at last been able to follow up the statements of intent it issued over a year ago with the formal announcement of its T9000-based SN9000 series parallel .
1993	All can be hosted by a personal or Sun workstation.
1993	Microsoft has stopped short of bundling the Sybase SQL Server it offers with Windows NT, but the two firms are working on a System 10-derived add-on package, with new tools for the third quarter, that'll scale to personal , minicomputers and mainframes.
1993	Users reportedly do not need to write programs.
1993	Supposedly the first legal Apple Inc Mac-compatible from the tiny NuTek USA Corporation uses Motif instead of the Mac interface to sidestep legal hassles.
1993	SIP, Simple Internet Protocol is compatible with different technologies on different and backwards compatible with existing IP technology.
1993	DEC's MPP activities have been moved from corporate research to its mainstream operations and clustering, as in its recent deal with Encore, is the current watchword.
1993	Steve Jobs last week denied to Unigram reports printed in a European trade magazine that Novell Inc was planning a takeover of NeXT Inc, intending to use NeXTstep as the object-oriented front-end to a new version of NetWare.
1993	The most interesting new addition is Open Desktop Lite, a cut-down version of release 3.0 that is pitched squarely at the standalone Intel workstation space also being coveted by SunSoft Inc, Univel Inc and NeXT Inc.
1993	Unisys will also make note of the fact that its anticipated PCI-based multiprocessing Unix Server Design Center, due in the fourth quarter, will house Pentiums and later P6s and that the high-end U6000/75 and U6000/85 that it OEMs from Sequent Systems Inc will be field upgradeable to Pentium in the fourth quarter.
1993	AT&T Co's manufacturing company NCR Corp has formed a new pan-European consulting and design centre, with the aim of providing multi-site and multinational companies with an integrated set of services that span national boundaries.
1993	Apple Inc last week duly announced its plans to enable users to run Macintosh applications unmodified on Unix servers, workstations and X terminals as Apple Services for Open Systems, and showed Macintosh System 7 running on a PowerPC 601.
1993	Its first PowerPC machines will appear in first half 1994, and the Centris 610 and 650 , Mac IIvx and IIvi, Performa 600 and Quadra 800 systems will be field-upgradable to the new CPU.
1993	Apple Inc is not putting all its object-oriented eggs into the Taligent Inc basket, US PC Week reports.
1993	IBM Corp significantly stepped up its efforts in the merchant semiconductor market late Monday when it announced that it is now sampling the PowerPC 601 RISC microprocessor, with production volumes shipping in the third quarter, and announced its entry into the application specific market with CMOS and BiCMOS process technologies and access to industry-standard ASIC design tools and new applications support services, aiming to deliver ASICs based on gate-array and standard-cell technologies for and other systems manufacturers.
1993	D&B hopes its support for Microsoft Corp's Windows NT via SmartStream will pull in large corporate personal users looking to upsize operations.
1993	Meantime the Kaleida Labs Inc joint venture between IBM Corp and Apple Inc in Mountain View, California has submitted its ScriptX specifications to the Interactive Multimedia Association in response to the trade group's Multimedia Scripting Language Request for Technology.
1993	ScriptX is described as a fully-functional object-oriented scripting language and set of data specifications designed to enable the development and playback of a single multimedia title on a variety of personal and workstations, personal digital assistants and consumer electronics products.
1993	In addition to being Microsoft Corp's front-line defence against the forces of WABI and being the MS-DOS/Windows emulator on practically everyone else's box, Insignia last week became one of only 12 companies to get on Apple Inc's ‘Inside Track’ programme.
1993	Canon Inc says it plans to resurrect NeXT Inc's Redwood City, California workstation business.
1993	Meanwhile NeXT Inc chief Steve Jobs looks to still have a real hate on for Sun Microsystems Inc.
1993	NEC said that initially in markets outside Japan it would look to sales through OEM channels — it currently has OEM relationships with Compagnie des Machines Bull SA, and Stratus Inc, whose fault-tolerant systems it buys for sale in Japan.
1993	Product line consistency is not the strongest suit of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG — first the company becomes a founder sponsor of the Open Software Foundation and then adopts Unix System V as its standard, now its US arm, Siemens Nixdorf USA, has turned to Sun Microsystems Corp for point-of-sale control processors despite the fact that Siemens' chosen RISC — versions of which it fabricates — is the R-series.
1993	The company is now in a regulatory climate where no objection would be made to either of its corporate investors, NEC Corp and IBM Corp, each with around 5%, greatly increasing their stakes in the company — to perhaps 25% each — but IBM has no cash to spare even if it wanted to get more involved with a company forever at the mercy of the shifting tides of French policy and NEC Corp, which two or three years ago would have jumped at the opportunity of making Bull a European and US outlet for far more of its products, faces a price war in its cash cow personal business back home and faces such a hard time that it has just seen its debt ratings cut — at a time when cheap capital is no longer available in Japan.
1993	Network Computing Devices Inc has the dedicated X-terminal business pretty much sewn up, and the Mountain View, California company is now moving in on the personal X Window System emulation business dominated by the likes of Canadian outfit Hummingbird Communications Ltd and UK firm XVision Ltd, with launch of PC-Xware, a single software package that it claims provides full X terminal functionality on personal for the first time.
1993	It also offers the facility to manage and configure personal running X Window centrally and remotely.
1993	Solaris x86 for Intel Corp architectures will move to release 2.2 later this year — from 2.1 now — Sun admits only to Compaq Corp and AST Research Inc having taken the release for their iAPX-86 multiprocessors.
1993	Concurrent Corp, which recently posted better than expected third quarter results (see below), has opted to take Unix System Labs' Unix System V Release 4.2 MP as the operating system for its next generation of real-time Unix systems, due out by the end of this calendar year (UX No 402).
1993	This work could eventually lead to better machine vision systems and optoelectronic neural integrated circuits that would literally enable parallel to process data at the speed of light.
1993	San Diego, California-based RDI Corp is to distribute IXI Ltd's Motif-based Panorama software on its range of BriteLite Sparc laptops.
1993	Sources note that Adobe Systems Inc did not go along to Apple Inc's MAS shindig as many hoped.
1993	It believes its TeleScript technology will be to what Postscript was to printer.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, a key partner in Microsoft's NT-on-multiprocessors push, is believed to have sent Microsoft the 30-way code changes a while ago but Microsoft was not expected to act on it so quickly.
1993	Former senior vice president of marketing Dennis Peck is now consulting for the firm, mostly on large-scale Unix issues, as a result of both the merciless California real-estate market and a highly successful wife who sells for another company, two reasons that make his moving to Oregon impossible.
1993	ASSOCIATES SHIPS CA-UNICENTER FOR HP UNIX BOXES
1993	Islandia, New York-based Associates Inc will begin delivering CA-Unicenter, its systems management product for client/server environments, on Hewlett-Packard Co HP 9000 800/700s this week (UX No 382).
1993	Dell Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, AST Research Inc and Advanced Logic Research Inc say they do meet the specs.
1993	CST has joint marketing agreements with Norwich-based Foundation Systems Ltd, Nottinghamshire-based Systems Development Consultants Ltd, Select Business Systems Ltd of Dundee, Scotland, York Ltd and Leeds-based LSI Ltd.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co and the Hungarian Central Statistics Office have formally signed an $11m contract for the replacement of the Office's IBM Corp 4381 mainframe-based centre with an open system.
1993	The Statistics Office will be supplied with a three-processor HP 9000/890 server with 512Mb along with Model 867, 847 and 817 dedicated servers, 50Gb of hard disk storage with optical and Digital Audio Tape back-up, and 210 personal and workstations.
1993	Hewlett-Packard will also supply 19 Series 800 servers to the Statistics Office regional branches, each with 2Gb to 4Gb of disk storage, along with another 270 personal and workstations.
1993	OnLine 6.0 is scheduled to ship by the end of year and will be available on Sun Microsystems Inc, IBM, Hewlett-Packard Co and Sequent Systems Inc platforms.
1993	Strategic partnerships with software companies are the order of the day at Compaq Corp as it tries to transform itself into a much more broadly-based systems manufacturer, and according to Computerworld, the latest is with Oracle Corp.
1993	The US trade weekly says that Compaq and Oracle are putting together plans to develop clustered personal servers designed to run Oracle's Oracle7 Parallel Server Option, with first deliveries possibly as soon as the autumn.
1993	SunSolutions, Sun Microsystems Inc's desktop conferencing unit has launched version 1.1 of its ShowMe white board system for Sparc systems.
1993	The 26-person start-up claims most companies aren't following up on their leads properly, blowing wads of money in the process.
1993	Intersel, which is targeting software Ingres Systems Inc's Ingres Corp has integrated Unix System Labs' Tuxedo transaction processing monitor in with its applications development tool, Windows4GL.
1993	Stratus Inc has opened a Unix Porting and Technical Center in Dublin, Ireland — it will offer customers and software developers the facilities and personnel to convert their applications to run under the Stratus FTX fault-tolerant Unix operating system.
1993	Deputy group chief executive, J A Woan attributed its success to careful cost control, strong sales of its Sparcbook notebook , and a healthy OEM business.
1993	In an effort to expand this business further, it has just signed a joint marketing agreement with the Sparc Technology Business Unit of Sun Microsystems Corp, which sells Sparc technology and expertise to third parties, but will focus on higher volume, standard board designs, while marketing Tadpole's skills in complex custom board designs.
1993	Still, the vast majority of Tadpole's profits come from its systems business, including Sparcbook product, portable , and fees from licensing deals.
1993	It'll include support for Novell Inc's IPX protocol and James River's own personal computer-to-Unix communication software ICE 10+ and ICE TCP, which lets users access Esix from MS-DOS personal .
1993	Total orders for the second quarter, to April 30, were 28.5% up at $5,370m; orders for products rose 32.9% to $4,120m, making it clear that the company, where accounted for less than half of the business only a few years back, is continuing progressively to become more and more a pure company.
1993	HP may be doing very well with its Unix (it is), but its out-and-out winner is of course the printer business: printer orders in the quarter were up a phenomenal 33% on the 1992 second quarter at $4,100m.
1993	The traditional Japanese trading companies constantly flirt with the industry, and trading giant Mitsui & Co has signed up with Yokogawa Hewlett-Packard Co to market Hewlett-Packard Co's HP SoftBench software engineering system for integrating development tools.
1993	UnixWorld claims that an IBM Corp project code named Renoir will produce a CMOS 390-on-a-chip that the company will start shipping as a cheap parallel processing database by the end of the year.
1993	Sun used to say ‘the network is the ’— now it thinks ‘the network is the business.’
1993	Apple Inc wants to be perfectly clear.
1993	Fujitsu's other Sparc system-building concern, the non-computer company, HaL Systems Inc, was involved in the discussions but will play no part in the initial effort as it focused exclusively on 64-bit Sparc development.
1993	Amdahl's RISC project date back to 1990 when it inherited technology from the failed Key Laboratories Inc (UX No 309).
1993	Digital Equipment Corp is now distributing JSB Systems Ltd's MultiView Mascot with its DECadvantage application environment.
1993	It supports multi-user terminals as well as personal client and Unix server configurations.
1993	Maidenhead, Berkshire-based, Tetra Ltd says Chameleon 2000, its Unix-based financial and accounting software, now supports JSB Systems Ltd's Multiview Mascot windowing interface.
1993	In the meantime, Tetra has announced two joint UK marketing agreements with Sequent Systems Ltd and Motorola Group Ltd to put Chameleon 2000 on Sequent's Symmetry 2000 and Motorola's 8000 machines.
1993	Fujitsu attributed its loss to the sluggish global economy, but the company has no hit products in the market now that mainframes have gone ex-growth, it is only embarking on building a mid-range Unix business in Japan, in part with machines made by its ICL Plc affiliate and by Sun Microsystems Inc, and its personal business labours in the shadow of that of NEC Corp.
1993	One-time architect of the ACE Initiative Bob Miller, erstwhile chief of Mips Systems Inc and its successor Mips Technologies Inc, is bent on hammering out his initial vision.
1993	Digital Equipment Corp last week unveiled its much-previewed 150MHz Alpha personal , the DECpc AXP/150, plus two ‘Pentium ready’ Intel Corp 80486-based machines, models DECpc DT and DECpc MTE, all three designed to run Microsoft Corp Windows NT.
1993	In an attempt to streamline its personal range, DEC plans to market the new Alpha system in parallel with an as-yet unannounced Pentium-only system called DECpc 560 ST that'll debut at a similar price point and configuration as the Alpha machine.
1993	The move comes as part of IBM's evolving relationship with the Systems Division of Harris Corp.
1993	It is based on SVR4.2 MP and will offer B2-level security capabilities as defined by the US National Security Center.
1993	Group members include British Telecom International, Burlington Coat Factory, Millipore Corp, US West NewVector, Oracle Corp and Sequent Systems Corp.
1993	In anticipation of Moses' demands, some vendors including Associates and systems management start-up OpenVision Technologies Inc (UX No 434), have already begun talking to Moses about product compliance.
1993	Talks between Job's Next Inc and HP date back to the beginning of the year (UX No 416), and the two are now teaming to offer a bundled range of Next software on HP systems, targeted at the financial services industry, under the name Object Enterprise.
1993	NeXT says DEC, Compaq Corp and NCR Corp are also to offer NeXTstep for Intel processors on some of their 80486-based personal , pre-installed or bundled by reseller organisations.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp and Fujitsu Microelectronics Inc have teamed to design the next-generation highly-integrated, cheap Sparc for low-cost desktop and server, portable and high-end embedded markets.
1993	Nevertheless, they say, Windows NT will be fundamental in Microsoft's strategy to move it business from desktop personal — MS-DOS already runs on about 90% of the 140 million PC machines worldwide — to mid-range and high-end systems.
1993	Among the queue of nervous users invited onto the stage to be interviewed by an avuncular Bill Gates was one from National Westminster Bank Plc, which is developing a document management and workflow system based on 40 multiprocessor Sequent Systems Inc servers and 150 Windows for Workgroups clients.
1993	Not only did the get them right but Palmer didn't slow his delivery at all, and the printed word appeared a fraction of a second later.
1993	The version that Palmer played with has a vocabulary of 2,500 words, very small by human standards, though enough for application-specific work such as booking airline tickets, or controlling front ends.
1993	But the real significance of the demonstration is that for the first time high-powered personal are capable of keeping up with normal speech without…the…speaker…doing…this.
1993	The company says its researchers took six months to extend the concept from a client-server system — as shown at the last Comdex event — to a personal .
1993	Why not add network support so that if you plug an extra personal into the local network, everyone's applications will automatically run a bit faster (and they already run very quickly indeed)?
1993	Moreover Tao claims to have found substantial funding and board-level interest from some of the biggest Japanese and electronics companies, the identities of which will be announced this summer.
1993	Chris Hinsley, Tao Systems chief executive and the operating system's architect claims without a blush that the Japanese industry will completely steam-roll the US and Europeans, and that Taos will be the fuel.
1993	Chris Hinsley started off as a successful commercial author of arcade games for home , and many of Taos's concepts spring from his original need to produce code that would transfer easily between a plethora of machines.
1993	A personal with a single 66MHz 80486 will render a broadcast quality, full screen, complex piece of ray-tracing in less than a minute.
1993	This will slot into a personal and enable the 80486 and the MIPS processors run code cooperatively, bringing our same ray trace example down to less than 10 seconds.
1993	And applications built with Serius technology are portable between Apple Inc Macintosh and Microsoft Corp Windows environments.
1993	Tandem Inc's networking equipment company Ungermann-Bass Inc has launched a version of its NetDirector network management system for Unix.
1993	Colorado Springs-based Cray Corp finally shipped its first Cray-3 supercomputer.
1993	Insiders say engineers at HaL Systems Inc — yet to show a product in the two or more years since its launch — are now working under extreme pressure to make sure they get stuff out of the door on schedule — the situation is described as ‘very tense.’
1993	It is also associating with two local companies, Bhekisizwe Systems Pty Ltd and Olivetti Information Technology Pty Ltd.
1993	Tandem Inc has opened a new subsidiary in Budapest, increasing the company's presence in Central and Eastern Europe.
1993	Next step for Oracle Corp founder Larry Ellison is to join the board of NeXT Inc, alongside Daniel Case III, president and co-chief executive of Hambrecht & Quist Group Inc; they join Steve Jobs and Keiichi Uno of Canon Inc.
1993	In one of the most tantalising promises yet made in the industry, Unix System Laboratories Inc is claiming that independent software vendors who port their applications to its Destiny desktop implementation of Unix SVR4 will only have to do so once to have it run on the disparate architectures of Intel Corp, Sun Microsystems Inc Sparc RISC, MIPS Systems Inc RISC, Hewlett-Packard Co PA RISC and IBM Corp's RS/6000 RISC.
1993	Although Sun has re-iterated that it won't be doing a 64-bit Sparc implementation itself for at least the next three years —‘there is no need for it yet’(UX No 376)— the company is seeking to define the space in which some are already working — Hal Systems Inc for one.
1993	Anil Gadre, Sun Microsystems Corp's vice president of systems product marketing, told Unigram last week that it has a 64-bit part that it is playing with, but there is no operating system or applications up and running on it, yet.
1993	MIPS Systems Inc and its system and semiconductor partners have outlined the technology road map for its RISC architecture, previewed here last month (UX No 377).
1993	The second is a low-power, low-cost processor codenamed VRX, targeted at notebook and battery-powered .
1993	It's essentially a low-power version of the R4000 being developed by NEC Corp which will operate at less than 2W at 80MHz, but deliver up to 10 times the performance of competing low-cost personal and notebook-sized systems, the firm claims.
1993	Now the hardware side, Sun Microsystems Corp has responded to the waves of criticism by saying that it will make its silicon designs available to some semiconductor fabricators so that they can make, sell and support chips based on those designs worldwide.
1993	Sun — which admits its latest strategy is similar to the route trodden by MIPS Systems Inc that now has half a dozen semiconductor companies selling its R series RISC designs — says it is just awaiting clearance to announce the names of several firms that have agreed to take on the Sparc.
1993	ICL, suffering under the recession like everyone else, last week reported a 30% drop in trading profits to £78m in 1991, after a 5 percentage points reduction in gross margins — attributed to higher sales of low-margin personal and Unix systems — and a £10m rationalisation charge above that of 1990.
1993	On the hardware side of the business, personal revenues rose 92% — though only 15% of this growth was organic; Unix system revenues grew 28% organically.
1993	ICL hopes to ship 200,000 personal this year.
1993	Harris Corp's Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Systems Division has moved up to the second generation 88110 version of Motorola Inc's RISC family with the Night Hawk 5000 series — which can't be called Night Hawk in the UK.
1993	The company says that the machines are the first real-time multiprocessing to use the 88110 and represent a unique 88110 implementation with large caches, local memory, and high input-output throughput supporting multiple input-output buses making it a balanced system for real-time computing.
1993	According to Anil Gadre, Sun Microsystems Corp's vice president of systems product marketing, the new licensing strategy — see front page — should, for example, enable the Sparc compatible community to get its hands on the company's next-generation Viking, or SuperSparc technology — being co-developed with Texas Instruments Inc — much more quickly than the best part of a year that elapsed between the launch of the Sparcstation 2 (UX No 308), and the day Sun gave the green light for the LSI Logic Inc made 40MHz Sparc chip sets to be sold on to Sun wannabe's (UX No 356).
1993	It's thought to be preparing to market an Intel Corp 80486 (or alike) -based accelerator board that runs in an Sbus slot which would greatly improve the performance of personal applications.
1993	Apple Inc is to strip out the bits that won't be needed in its Quadra machines to create its first-ever dedicated server, MacWeek reports.
1993	The device uses an infra-red link to connect to a desktop or to other Personal Digital Assistants, and it will use a low-power RISC processor — Cambridge, UK-based Advanced RISC Machines Ltd's ARM600 presumably, a 3″ by 5″ supertwist but not backlit screen and will have no other input devices except a pen.
1993	Replying to reports that it has published misleading SPECmark performance claims for its boxes by using unavailable compiler and pre-compiler technology in its testing (UX No 378), Anil Gadre, Sun Microsystems Corp's vice president of systems product marketing, says the company will use shipped compilers for future SPECfp and SPECint performance benchmarking.
1993	Sun has appointed Dr Peter Deutsch to its research outfit Sun Labs Inc, naming him as a Sun Fellow, an honour bestowed only on two others: Ivan Sutherland (of Evans & Sutherland ) and Bob Sproulls.
1993	In India, the Bombay Stock Exchange is to use 50 Sun servers to support some 3,000 personal running alongside an ICL mainframe to automate its trading floor — the deal is worth a total of some $30m over the next 12 months: Sun's contribution is being handled by its distributor Wipro Infotech.
1993	Fujitsu Ltd sources say that the machine being developed by Hal Systems Inc in the US will be significantly more powerful than the 300 MIPS that has been reported — but 300 MIPS was for one of its Sparc chips.
1993	San Diego-based TeleSoft Inc says its TeleAda-Exec Ada-oriented real-time executive, is now available for MIPS Systems Inc R3000 target systems: up to now, it has been available only for Motorola 68000 and Intel 80386 targets, but it now works in conjunction with the TeleGen2 Ada VAX-host/R3000-target Cross Development System.
1993	The University of Delft in the Netherlands has a VME-3000 adaptor card, with a transputer link, which allows users to interface a MIPS Systems Inc R3000 chip to their VME system for, it claims, around a quarter of the cost of an R3000 VME card.
1993	Sunnyvale-based MIPS Systems Inc says that Control Data Corp and Tandem Inc will be adding its new ARCSystems to their product lines, and that AT&T Co's AT&T Federal Systems Advanced Technologies has announced it will offer ARCSystems with System V/Multi-Level Secure Unix in its role as a large-scale integrator for the US Federal government.
1993	Vittorio Cassoni, erstwhile head of AT&T's shop, and as such, the single individual most credited with giving the Open Software Foundation a reason to exist and dividing the Unix community into two opposing camps, has left Olivetti, who lent him to AT&T in the first place, to join Xerox Corp as executive vice president.
1993	Interestingly, Cassoni was recruited because Bill Lowe, who headed up development of the original IBM personal , left to join Gulfstream.
1993	In the UK, Sequent Systems Ltd, Weybridge, Surrey, has won a £1.2m contract from Nuclear Electric — the UK's state owned nuclear power generator — to supply 15 Symmetry 2000/200 systems, which replace the existing ICL mainframes.
1993	Winix has already captured support from several firms and systems integrators including Tandem, Motorola, MicroAge and Science Applications International Corp (SAIC), and says it is negotiating with several OEMs.
1993	Application development can be carried out on MS-DOS personal , the IBM RS/6000, and DEC, Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems workstations.
1993	Albers, who will operate out of Holland, previously headed Stratus Inc's international operations.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc is to appoint former ICL boss, Rob Wilmot, to its board, replacing outgoing president, Scott Gibson: Sequent's six-strong board now has five outside directors.
1993	A survey of the Japanese market in Nikkei group magazine Nikkei estimates the Japanese domestic market at $92,000m: a growth rate of 6% is expected over the new financial year that started on April 1; by sector the market grew last fiscal by 18% for Unix systems, compared with 8% for the data services market, 5% for mainframe and 3% for small business , while personal saw negative growth; Unix machines are expected to grow by 20% this year and personal to put on 7%; mainframes are again expected to be affected by the depressed economic conditions but will still manage 2% growth.
1993	Menlo Park, California-based Informix Software Inc says it will do versions of its family of database information management software to Alpha, Digital Equipment Corp's new 64-bit architecture.
1993	Mountain View, California-based Network Computing Devices Inc has been chosen to supply the X terminals for the US Department of Defence's Joint Computer-Aided Acquisition and Logistic Support system as part of the contract awarded in December to Sciences Corp: it will supply 13,000 colour and monochrome X-stations worth $30m.
1993	Salomon Brothers has initiated coverage of 11 stocks, six of which analyst John Jones is recommending for purchase: the six are Amdahl Corp, Cray Research Inc, Hewlett-Packard Co, Sequoia Systems Inc, Stratus Inc and Tandem Inc, Dow Jones says.
1993	Start-up Carrera Inc, out of Laguna Hills, California, has licensed an ARCsystem design, the ARCsystem 100 Manufacturing Kit, from MIPS Systems Inc to produce PC motherboards, expecting to be first out with a RISC-based PC motherboard later this year.
1993	Gossips down in Houston insist that Compaq Corp will announce its withdrawal from the Advanced Computing Environment initiative within a couple of weeks because its business is making very high volume personal , and it can't see the MIPS Systems Inc RISC-based machines ever reaching those kinds of volumes; no-one was available to comment at Compaq but its strategy has been shifting over the past year — the investment in Silicon Graphics Inc has been sold, and founder and president Rod Canion was ousted from the company after differences over strategy.
1993	SUN SPAWNS SUNSELECT, ITS PERSONAL SIBLING
1993	Bell Atlantic acquired its VLIW technology from minisupercomputer builder Multiflow Inc for an undisclosed fee after the pioneer of that particular brand of computing threw in the towel back in 1990 when it ran out of cash (UX No 276).
1993	There is a $2,000 SunPC Accelerator DX equipped with a 25MHz 80486dx part to put Sparcs on a par with 80486 personal .
1993	Apple Inc has been left with little more than a garbage can in its protracted suit against Microsoft Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co alleging that Windows infringes its copyright in the Macintosh user interface.
1993	The acquisition is Spectragraphics Corp's GSS Personal Graphics Division, which supplies software that enables MS-DOS personal to perform X terminal functions.
1993	PC-Xview for NT enables personal users to display X-Window applications from anywhere on the network alongside local NT ones.
1993	The 8-bit generation was won by CP/M with the Apple Inc Apple II operating environment a very creditable second.
1993	The first was meant to unseat Digital Equipment Corp's PDP-11 on the glow of the IBM name alone, but was sent naked into the market with no software and became the ultimate dogsbody product, a computing resource for any whim that needed one, a without portfolio that never found a central role.
1993	More details have come to light about AT&T Microelectronics ‘Hobbit’ RISC chip: last we heard (UX No 372) the hairy-footed little creature was being used by ex-Sun man Bernie La Croute at his pen-driven start-up Eo Corp.
1993	They differ from pen-based in that the handwriting will not have to be translated or recognised by CPU.
1993	Now that the Apple Inc v Microsoft Corp lawsuit has been defanged and the only thing standing between Bill Gates and world domination is the Federal Trading Commission — see page three: there may be more truth than not in the observation that Microsoft wants IBM to have OS/2 so they can't be accused of being a monopoly.
1993	Meanwhile, Iomega has enhanced its products to the same drive to work with Unix, Apple Macintosh and personal machines, has also made its drives work with the NeXT Inc and Silicon Graphic Inc's boxes via interfaces.
1993	Canon Inc, which markets the Apple Inc Macintosh and the NeXT System has VAR agreements with Digital Equipment Corp and IBM Japan Ltd, is adding the Hewlett-Packard Co's HP 9000 Unix workstations to its line-up.
1993	According to insiders, sales of NeXT in Japan are proving difficult, despite a growing number of Japanese language applications for NeXT.
1993	Following its fellow Motorola Inc 88000 travellers, Dolphin Server Technology AS (UX No 376) and Harris Corp's division (UX No 380), Data General Corp — which admits to having chewed the fat over alternative RISCs, but has decided to stick with the 88000 series (UX No 376)— is expected to announce its own plans for systems based upon the next generation 88110 shortly, likely to include a complete re-haul of its existing AViiON workstation and server series.
1993	Control Data Corp looks unstable again — the company is restructuring into a holding company and three operating companies of which only the group will retain the Control Data name.
1993	A merger between the side and the proposed Silicon Graphics Inc-MIPS Systems Inc still looks like a logical development.
1993	It's all done with …
1993	Expanding on the agreement that AT&T's Systems Division forged with Banyan Systems Inc last year, NCR Corp has now sealed a pact with the Westborough, Massachusetts-based company, said to be worth $25m over the next three years: NCR is to market and support Banyan's Unix-based Vines network operating system — in the US and Canada initially, worldwide at a later date — whilst Banyan distributors will be able to sell NCR products.
1993	Carol Bartz, Sun Microsystems Inc vice-president of worldwide field operations, has jumped ship to become chairman, president and chief executive of Autodesk Inc, Sausalito, replacing Alvar Green: she is succeeded at Sun by Joseph Roebuck who becomes vice-president of worldwide field operations for its Sun Microsystems Corp arm.
1993	Its official: Boris Yeltsin has gone object-oriented — he has ordered 2,500 NeXT workstations from Houston-based distributor Talus Corp.
1993	COMPAQ, DEC, INTEL AND SANTA CRUZ JEOPARDIZE MIPS SYSTEMS ACE EFFORT
1993	Two of ACE's founding fathers, Compaq Corp and Santa Cruz Operation Inc are now being widely tipped to stymie their respective MIPS-based ACE development work; not just because MIPS is about to lose its independence to Silicon Graphics Inc, but also because the Intel Corp 80586 (P5) bandwagon is now gathering a full head of steam, whilst DEC is also doing its damnedest to undermine the whole MIPS effort with its Alpha RISC (see below).
1993	Inc C Olivetti & Co SpA last week rolled-out its first contribution to the ACE initiative, in the form of the Olivetti M700 Series, built around MIPS 's R4000 RISC.
1993	It is the production version of the PWS 4000 porting platform which has been shown at all the major exhibitions since Comdex/Fall last October (UX No 357).
1993	The functions of the group created under chief engineer William Strecker will be distributed to the marketing groups for the separate product lines; the move also affects the heads of personal and peripherals operations, and of DEC's Unix business.
1993	Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Encore Corp has introduced a new machine that combines a Concept/32 processor with its 88000 RISC-based machine.
1993	Solbourne Inc founder Doug MacGregor has been bounced as president and chief executive officer of the Sparc-compatible company he created, and is replaced by his vice president of international operations, Carl Herrmann.
1993	Cataclysmic first quarter figures from MIPS Systems Inc — a loss of $12.7m on sales that plunged 46% to $23.7m underline how much the company needs rescuing by Silicon Graphics Inc.
1993	The company says it shipped a record 52,000 units, including desktop and servers (exclusive of upgrades) during the quarter, and that SunSoft Inc distributed a record number of Unix licences, more than 70,000, to users of Sparc-based and iAPX-86-based kit, to manufacturers of Sparc-based machines and to other licensees.
1993	IBM also no longer intends to support NeXT Inc's NeXTstep Release 2 on AIX/6000 or AIX PS/2 machines.
1993	Apple Inc's personal digital assistant — now said to be code-named Newton — is being described as ‘one of the most exciting electronics products in years’ according to sources that spoke to the Associated Press.
1993	Now expected late next month, the pen-driven handheld is said to be able to organise data such as an appointments diary and can communicate with other machines by dialling phone numbers and sending facsimile messages.
1993	Newton is said to be powered by a RISC microprocessor, presumably Acorn Plc's ARM device, which is now owned by Advanced RISC Machines Ltd, the Cambridge, UK-based design company in which Apple, Acorn and VLSI Technology Inc are all investors.
1993	The Mission has corralled such personages as Sun Microsystems Inc's John Gage, Chorus Systemes SA's Hubert Zimmerman and ex-Apple Inc honcho Jean Louis Gassees to speak.
1993	As expected, Tadpole Technology plc, the UK company that took itself off to Austin, Texas, and came up with the first notebook based on Sun Microsystems Inc's Sparc RISC chip and Unix, has decided the time is right to bring its Sparcbook 1 back to Europe (UX No 371).
1993	Gilkes says his firm hasn't run into the Sparc laptop builders like RDI Corp and Toshiba Corp too often on its travels — for starters the Sparcbook has no Sbus or peripherals.
1993	Michael Slater, in the latest issue of Microprocessor Report, chides us all for being mean to MIPS Systems Inc and the ACE Initiative.
1993	In his analysis, Hewlett-Packard Co, Sun Microsystems Inc and Intel Corp were out for blood, DEC and Compaq Corp started eating their own children and ‘the press, in a striking example of pack journalism, turned vicious,’ playing up all the bad stuff — most notably MIPS' financial distress — never mentioning the $50m it has in the bank — though see page three for MIPS' disastrous results.
1993	Slater, however, who figures MIPS for one of the strongest long-term challenges to Intel's iAPX-86 dominance in the personal market, allows that MIPS has nevertheless created some of its own headaches — like delays in the R4000 RISC stemming from its decision to produce a chip that pleased everybody, yet pleased nobody.
1993	London-based Chernikeeff Networks Ltd is now offering Japan Corp's range of MIPS R3000 RISC-based colour X-terminals in the UK as the SuperXR series: prices go from £4,500 for a 17″ model to £6,000 for the 20″ version.
1993	Phoenix Ltd, Northampton, UK, is offering Dataram's DR-6000S memory boards for IBM's RS/6000 series, which increases main memory on the Model 320 from 8Mb to 128Mb, and to 512Mb across the rest of the range: the boards come in 16Mb and 64Mb configurations and are claimed to cost 30% less than IBM options.
1993	Scanworx is distributed by Compact Systems in Austria, Rank Xerox in France, Nuvoe Tecnologie Grafiche in Italy and in the UK by Xerox Imaging Systems Ltd.
1993	Amsterdam-based, Associated Experts BV and Parsytec, Aachen, Germany have signed an OEM agreement for ACE Expert T800/T9000 transputer compilers.
1993	UK Unix connectivity house Unipalm Ltd, Cambridge, is to distribute Macclesfield, Cheshire-based JSB Systems' MultiView, Windows-to-Unix integration software through its European channels.
1993	Rair GmbH will be selling Addamax's secure operating system and networking products including its Compartmented Mode Workstation (CMW) in Germany to both commercial and government accounts under an exclusive reseller licence: the two will collaborate on localisation.
1993	In the UK, Misys subsidiary, TIS Software Ltd, Slough, Berkshire, says it has ported its Strategix financial and distribution system to Sequent 's Symmetry series — Sequent reseller, Cambridge Online Applications Ltd becomes a Strategix VAR.
1993	In the UK, Luton-based Optim Ltd has released Help3000, a help desk system for MS-DOS and Unix platforms: it features tracking capabilities, an electronic data interchange interface, call tracking and logging.
1993	Systems for Business Ltd, Burnham, Buckinghamshire, has launched a manufacturing, accounting and distribution package for Unix systems dubbed TIMS: the firm has recently opened a branch in Warsaw.
1993	In the UK, Oxford-based Hytec Systems Ltd, has been bought out in a £1.8m management buy-out the ICL reseller of its Unix mid range systems will be headed up by Suat Yilmaz who will take over as managing director.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA's European corporate marketing director for personal , Fabrizio Gimona, revealed that SCO even offered to develop a custom version of ODT for Olivetti's latest box — see front page — an offer the Italian company eventually declined.
1993	Sony Corp has two new models of its NEWS workstation family, both based on the 64-bit R4000 RISC chip and with speeds of 100 MIPS: the NWS-5000 is a desktop model and the MWS-5900 is a server and both use the R4000SC chip clocked at 66.7MHz They run the NEWS-OS4.2 version of Berkeley Unix, and feature support of the AppleTalk protocol, facilitating connection with Macintosh .
1993	Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Encore Corp has introduced a new machine that combines a Concept/32 processor with its 88000 RISC-based machine.
1993	InterActive Author, whose price is still unfixed, will be available on NeXT in the third quarter, with an X-Windows version coming by the end of the year.
1993	Sparc laptop house RDI Corp, San Diego, California has had a change of guard: start-up specialist, Roy Wright, has been brought in as president to run day-to-day operations, while co-founder, Rick Schrameck, remains chairman and CEO responsible for the company's direction, strategic alliances and new product development.
1993	AT&T Federal Systems has signed a systems integration teaming agreement with MIPS Systems Inc, which includes Bell Laboratories implementing a MIPS System V.4 applications binary interface-compatible version of B1-rated System V/Multi-Level Secure Unix for MIPS' new R4000 workstations and servers; AT&T intends to sell the MIPS machines to the US federal government.
1993	Data General Corp, the British Society, the Scottish Office Industry Department and the Department of Trade and Industry are co-sponsoring the first Scottish Open Systems conference, which takes place at the Ibrox Stadium — home to Glasgow Rangers football club — on May 14th.
1993	Seymour Cray has been left holding the baby at his struggling Colorado Springs-based Cray Corp: Neil Davenport has resigned as president and chief executive, saying that Cray had reached the point where it has appropriate resources to complete the Cray-3 so he is free to seek other opportunities — but the company is still seeking its first firm customer for the supercomputer.
1993	Talus, the little Texas company with the order for 2,500 NeXT workstations from Russian president Boris Yeltsin (UX No 381), says the way the order's written it doesn't have to provide NeXT machines, merely running NeXTStep: it estimates the value of the order at $25m, but not in cold cash.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has privately placed some $20m — £11.3m — worth of convertible debentures to repay bank debt and provide working capital.
1993	Seizing the opportunity offered by Compaq Corp's formal resignation from the Advanced Computing Environment initiative (UX No 382), the Santa Cruz Operation Inc, finally steeled itself to announce the suspension of all of its MIPS Systems Inc development work last week — effectively tendering its resignation from the ACE crowd.
1993	So after a brief twelve months in existence, ACE has paddled itself up the Swanee, its dream of emulating the success of the personal revolution now just a pipe-dream.
1993	Work at the new Virtual Reality facility will be based on research and development already performed by the partners — LPAC member Queen Mary & Westfield College, for example, has been working on imaging, human interfaces and visualisation.
1993	Back-to-front Unix house Mt Xinu Inc, Berkeley, California has come out with a version of the Mach 3.0 microkernel developed at Carnegie Mellon University as an add-on to its Mach386 product: it runs on Intel 80386 and 80486-based AT-bus systems and provides complete Mach 3.0 microkernel source code, a complete build environment which enables users that do not have a detailed knowledge of Carnegie Mellon University system development tools to modify and rebuild the Mach 3.0 kernel, a binary version of a BSD server which makes it possible to run the Mach 3.0 kernel and the BSD server in place of the standard integrated 2.5 Mach kernel provided with Mach386, source code for many system-specific utilities, which have been modified to operate with Mach 3.0, and a source-code example of a simple Unix-like server.
1993	JV Dialogue, the sprawling banking software company, is to open an office in London: the aim of the office — which will be staffed with just one person — is to promote, distribute and support software developed in Russia by its constituent organisations; the only success story for Soviet software in the West so far is that of Paragraph which has agreements with Apple Inc and Go Corp on its cursive handwriting recognition software.
1993	Aleks (Russia), a Moscow-based security company, is marketing a database of business partners to avoid: rather suspiciously launched on April 1, the service — Conduit — has information on what it calls ‘untrustworthy commercial partners’ and the database is apparently updated by aggrieved entrepreneurs and firms that have been victims of fraud or deceit and are seeking redress (or revenge)— canny Aleks says it cannot be responsible for the data contained on the database; users must pay 5,000 roubles as an initial fee, plus another 100 roubles a month and 20 roubles for each reference.
1993	The Soviet-US joint venture Telekos is now providing a voice-mail service in Moscow: according to Alexander Gromov, Telekos deputy director, the system runs off a installed at the Moscow city telephone exchange; the mail box has two minutes' memory for input messages and half a minute for output messages; the subscription is 1000 roubles hook-up fee plus 2,300 roubles per month.
1993	The Architecture Neutral Distribution Format-like technology that Unix System Laboratories Inc has up its sleeve so that one port of an application to its Destiny desktop implementation will run on the disparate architectures of the Intel Corp iAPX-86, Sun Microsystems Inc Sparc, MIPS Systems Inc RISC, Hewlett-Packard PA RISC and IBM RS/6000 architectures (UX No 380) is exactly that: ANDF-like.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc's Corp unit duly came out with a new, cheaper Sparcstation IPC last week, offering a colour system for under $6,000 — £5,000 in the UK — for the first time.
1993	The company reckons that the new IPC lines up against an IBM Corp RS/6000 Model 220 at $10,000 and an HP 9000/710 at $14,065 — and is nearly $2,000 under a similarly equipped 486/33M PC from Compaq Corp.
1993	The ACE Initiative, hailed by its founders as the ‘most significant industry announcement of the 1990s’ just twelve short months ago (UX No 329), lies in tatters.
1993	MIPS Systems Inc vice president of software technology, and now its ACE liaison, Larry Weber, said that since last summer Intel was repeatedly approached by ACE members including Olivetti, Acer, Compaq and MIPS asking it to somehow endorse and participate in the Initiative.
1993	Officially, the Santa Cruz Operation Inc is shelving its MIPS Systems Inc work to ‘wait and see’ how the MIPS market develops numerically.
1993	For its part, Compaq Corp says its decision to abandon the MIPS platform is based on considerable market research and interrogation of its major Fortune 1000 and FT 500 customer base.
1993	Hitachi Ltd has OSF/1 out in Japan, but its role in is now starting to appear strained.
1993	Even though Compaq Corp is infatuated with the NeXT Inc's NextStep environment, claiming it delivers today what the Taligent IBM Corp/Apple Inc joint venture can only promise, and what Sun Microsystems Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co have yet to materialise, it seems in no particular hurry to cut that OEM deal Steve Jobs is after.
1993	Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Modular Systems Inc has added three new members to its Real/Star Family 1000 Series of 88000-based real-time systems that run the AEG AG company's Real/IX real-time Unix.
1993	Privately-held Performance Technology, develops the Powerfusion package that links MS-DOS micros to Unix systems, the Powersave archival system for networks, and the PowerLan personal networking system, which is compliant with X/Open Co Ltd and Open Software Foundation Distributed Computing Environment recommendations.
1993	White Pine Software Inc, Nashua, New Hampshire, has launched a new version of eXodus, its X-Window display server, for the NeXT .
1993	Priced at $350, Exodus for Apple Inc's Macintosh ships in June.
1993	VenturCom's real-time E-Venix/386 Unix operating system will now support embedded X-Windows, reportedly a first for an embedded operating system: the company has made it possible to embed NFS on a diskless single-board via E-NFS.
1993	Silicon Graphics Inc took one look at the ghastly quarterly figures from MIPS Systems Inc — a $12.7m loss (UX No 382)— and decided it had paid too much for MIPS: it will now pay 0.52 of a share for each MIPS, down from 0.61 of a share, the eventual price depending on what MIPS’ share price is when the deal closes.
1993	Piling on yet more misery for MIPS Systems Inc, the US Navy has decided to drop the R4000 RISC from the list of two mandatory CPUs for the upcoming AX attack aircraft and will ask the Joint Integrated Avionics Working Group joint service panel to follow its lead and eliminate the R4000 from the list, leaving the field clear for the other part, Intel Corp's 80960 RISC alone, Electronic News reports.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co recently sent out pairs of natty sunglasses to the UK press bearing the message ‘you'll be needing these on May 5th,’(well some of the poor loves must have thought things rather fetching as they were wearing them on Olivetti's jaunt to Paris a couple of days later).
1993	Following news that it was working on a 64-bit Sparc RISC version of very long instruction word technology (UX No 381), Bell Atlantic Corp, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is now claiming that there will be a multi-processing, superscalar Sparc Unix machine around by the end of the year that will incorporate the VLIW Trace scheduling compilers which originated from now defunct Multiflow Inc.
1993	The superscalar machine is reportedly in alpha testing at the moment — director of Bell's services division, Steve Eskernazi claims that ‘it is going better than expected…we're very confident about its success.’
1993	Scheduled to ship by year-end, the system will come with a price tag of $300,000-plus, and Eskernazi expects it to take on the the likes of Cray Research Inc and Convex Corp.
1993	Unix systems represented 16.9% of hardware sales, up from 15.3% last year; personal accounted for an 18.7% share — up from 11.3% — with other types of kit down 0.9% at 27.7% on 1990.
1993	On the personal front, ICL says it intends to progress relationships with the world's top 50 PC software suppliers to an extent where it will effectively house a PC software distribution business in its stable, and will be able to offer almost any PC solution to customers.
1993	Some could be absorbed into other Oki operations such as the research and development-oriented Oki Advanced Products, which contains a dozen ex-Stardent Inc engineers reporting directly to Japan, who could maintain contacts.
1993	Work on developing the PowerPC version of IBM Corp's Rios RISC is progressing faster than anyone, including partners in the venture IBM, Apple Inc and Motorola Inc believed possible, and chips should be ready before the end of the year with the possibility of machines being announced very late this year, Electronic News reports.
1993	IBM is also promising a new release of AIX for later this year that will enable network administrators to update client from an RS/6000 server, making PowerPC personal running AIX more attractive to large users.
1993	And the deal between Apple Inc and Echo Logic Inc on the latter's application translation technology should make a raft of Mac applications available for the new machines.
1993	The chips are targeted at embedded controls, portable and desktop , high-end fault-tolerant machines and supercomputers.
1993	Groupe Bull will be using the PowerPC in commercial multiprocessors and Thomson-CSF in real-time for defence, electronics and aerospace applications.
1993	The resurgence of interest in Multiflow's VLIW — see front page — has also surfaced in DEC's Alpha RISC chip of all places: the VLIW, very long instruction word technology that orgionated in the work of the now defunct Multiflow Inc (UX No 381), played a cameo role in the design and development of DEC's Alpha RISC chip, according to Seattle, Washington-based Equator Technologies Inc.
1993	Equator is now thought to be working on Intel Corp's i860 RISC processor, retargeting the Trace compilers for that architecture, as well as‘liaising with other major vendors’ who originally signed with Multiflow, such as Hewlett-Packard Co, HAL Systems Inc and Fujitsu Ltd.
1993	Computerworld interprets IBM's willingness to make public its plans for OS/2 3.0 as the latest advance in the clash with Microsoft Corp: having lost out in the personal operating system game, where OS/2 is lagging far behind compared with MS-DOS and Windows, IBM is trying to position the next generation OS/2 competitively against Microsoft's forthcoming NT operating system.
1993	IBM Corp is expected to take a 20% stake in Mountain View, California-based Parallan Inc to cement a deal under which IBM would add Parallan's multi-processor 80486-based servers to its line, Computerwoche reports.
1993	Thame — an erstwhile distributor of Motorola Systems boxes, was showing Auspex NetServers at the UK Management Group exhibition in Brighton last week, along with the new Sparc-based Epoch-2 data storage servers from Epoch Systems Inc.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, meanwhile, will ‘successfully exploit its multi-threaded NetWare implementation to win major new accounts.’
1993	PERSONAL CAMP ‘TO CHALLENGE WORKSTATION PERFORMANCE’
1993	In last week's episode, we had Intel refusing the repeated pleas of Compaq Corp and other personal vendors inside ACE to create a new ARC-like standard for Intel machines complete with an ARC-like Hardware Abstraction Layer (UX No 383).
1993	Now it appears in a story published in Retail News that that's exactly what's afoot in the personal camp — with Intel, Compaq, Microsoft Corp and IBM as players, and a game plan that tries to equal workstation performance with a PC-compatible.
1993	Following close on the termination of its Open Desktop agreement with Santa Cruz Operation Inc, Ask Systems Inc's Ingres Products Division faces another divorce: now Digital Equipment Corp is to sever links, ending a three-year bundling of the Ingres relational database management system under Ultrix.
1993	Logix UK Ltd, Redhill, Surrey, the division of Korean giant Lucky Goldstar's London-based international operation, is threatening to sue Logitek over the the Logix name — used for the conference event it hosted last week, as well as figuring in its on-going marketing plans for the coming year.
1993	Fremont-based Everex Systems Inc's Santa Ana, California-based Esix Inc does not intend to leave the iAPX-86 Unix market to Santa Cruz Operation Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc's SunSoft and Unix System Laboratories Inc's forthcoming Destiny.
1993	There are versions of the system for use with Bull's DPX Unix systems, workstations from Sun Microsystems Inc and personal running Santa Cruz Operation Inc Unix System V.3.2.
1993	Control Data Corp is this week tipped to announce its adoption of Hewlett-Packard Co's PA RISC chip, which it will use in systems that'll sit alongside the MIPS Systems Inc RISC boxes it already builds and OEMs.
1993	Adobe Systems is to port its Display Postscript language to Mountain View, California-based Network Computing Devices Inc's MIPS Systems Inc R3000 RISC-based X-terminals: NCD, which will have a hand in the porting, is to license the stuff back early next year when it is complete.
1993	Apple Inc says it bought the C2 level security software for its A/UX Unix from SecureWare Inc, Atlanta, Georgia: SecureWare is the approved vendor of security technology for the Open Software Foundation's OSF/1 operating system.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc has privately placed some $20m — £11.3m — worth of convertible debentures to repay bank debt and provide working capital.
1993	Expanding on the agreement that AT&T's Systems Division forged with Banyan Systems Inc last year, NCR Corp has now sealed a pact with the Westborough, Massachusetts-based company, said to be worth $25m over the next three years: NCR is to market and support Banyan's Unix-based Vines network operating system — in the US and Canada initially, worldwide at a later date — whilst Banyan distributors will be able to sell NCR products.
1993	Associates has put Motif on its CA-20/20 spreadsheet for Unix workstations and PCs under SCO Unix.
1993	The Instruction Set has paired with the Channel in the US to produce a series of TV programs and videos on open systems topics: Instruction Set already sells some Channel videos, using them to supplement instructor-led curricula.
1993	Ask Systems Inc of Mountain View, California, is believed to be about to take a stake in Unix manufacturing software specialist Baan International NV of Ede, Holland.
1993	Start-up Carrera Inc out of Laguna Hills, California, has licensed an ARCsystem design, the ARCsystem 100 Manufacturing Kit, from MIPS Systems Inc to make motherboards, expecting to be first out with a RISC-based personal board later this year.
1993	Kaleida, Apple Inc and IBM Corp's joint multimedia venture, is expected to announce the appointment of Nat Goldhaber as CEO this week: Goldhaber, founder of Centram Systems West, will reportedly be joined on the Kaleida board by an array of Apple and IBM executives including David Nagel, senior vice president of Apple's Advanced Technology Group; Robert Carberry, IBM's assistant general manager of personal systems; and two other high-ranking executives from Apple and IBM.
1993	Meanwhile, start-up Echo Logic, the Bell Labs Inc spin-off being funded by AT&T Ventures Corporation, the phone company's venture arm, has announced a pact with Apple Inc that it's apparently had in its back pocket for over a year.
1993	Apple UK Ltd, Uxbridge, Middlesex, begins deliveries of its Quadra 950 deskside Macintosh in the UK this week.
1993	Eagan, Minnesota-based Cray Research Inc has introduced a new Y-MP M90 series of supercomputers, claiming that they offer the largest main memories ever, in the hope that they make it possible to solve important scientific and engineering problems that are too large for the memory of any existing system to handle efficiently.
1993	CRAY WANTS CRAY-3 TO FRONT-END PARALLELs
1993	Meanwhile, Colorado Springs, Colorado-based Cray Corp has had to have another rethink on its strategy for its delayed and now down-sized Cray-3 supercomputer.
1993	Seymour Cray now says that it will be marketed as a front-end to enhance massively parallel processors, in the hope that the combination will appeal to scientists whose problems are too complex for a massively parallel alone to solve.
1993	Under the new marketing strategy, Cray will offer the Cray-3 in two-, four- and eight-processor configurations.
1993	Cray says that at least one prototype has been running for about three weeks and hopes to have one ready to demonstrate by the end of this summer.
1993	The machines will cost $5m to $30m and the company says that it has already opened talks with some makers of massively parallel — observers suggest that Intel Corp and Thinking Machines Corp may be high on the list — according to the New York Times, several major US laboratories have experimented with Cray machines (Cray-2s presumably) linked to Thinking Machines kit.
1993	Mac-on-RISC house Quorum Software Systems Inc, Menlo Park, California, last week filed a suit against Apple Inc seeking to counter allegations of patent and copyright infringement made by Apple.
1993	Start-up Echo Logic, the Bell Labs Inc spin-off being funded by AT&T Ventures Corporation, the phone company's venture arm, last week announced a pact with Apple Inc that it's apparently had in its back pocket for over a year.
1993	Habitual attendees of Unix events would have enjoyed last week's UK Measurement Group conference and exhibition, held at the Brighton Metropole.
1993	Instead of the usual exercise in preaching to the converted, UKCMG members — real users rather than industry staff — brought with them a wealth of scepticism and experience to Thursday's open systems stream that was both refreshing and alarming.
1993	Japanese companies continue to find the going extremely tough in the workstation business, where American companies led by Sun Microsystems Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co continue to make all the running, so defensive alliances are becoming essential, and Sony Corp and NEC Corp shared a platform last week to say that they are joining forces in the Japanese workstation market to enable Japanese language applications written for either of their MIPS Systems Inc RISC-based workstation families — NEC's EWS4800 and Sony's NEWS — to run on the other.
1993	The top-end of the market, where the likes of Intel Scientific and Parsytec live, is already well populated with compiler technology, but Portland reckons there is a great deal of ground to be gained amongst the host of niche players banging out i860 boards for graphics and CPU acceleration.
1993	The consortium founded a company, Mistral Systems Ltd, picking up Whitechapel's MIPS R2000-based Hi-Tech 10 workstation along the way, which it prettied-up and renamed Mistral-20 (a MIPS R3000 20MHz, 8Mb system).
1993	In the UK, Star Plc, Watford, Hertfordshire, has launched Unix/DOS integration tool kit MSWindows: which allows Unix applications to run within MSWindows on a personal or Unix machine, or alongside other Windows applications such as Lotus 1–2-3, without applications having to be rewritten.
1993	Taiwan's Macronix International has licensed MIPS Systems Inc's R3000 RISC on the heels of its fellow countryman Acer Corp taking the R4000.
1993	Artisoft Inc, the Tucson Arizona-based developer of the Lantastic low-end network operating system, has signed a letter of intent agreement to acquire San Antonio, Texas-based Performance Technology Inc for 300,000 new shares, valuing Performance at about $7.725m at the current Artisoft share price: privately-held Performance Technology, develops the Powerfusion package that links MS-DOS micros to Unix systems, the Powersave archival system for networks, and the PowerLan personal networking system, which is compliant with X/Open Co Ltd and Open Software Foundation Distributed Computing Environment recommendations.
1993	Control Data Corp's Products Group has appointed Clive Hay-Smith as regional manager, responsible for Western Europe, Africa and the Middle East following CDC's decision to separate its business into three divisions Information Services, Government Systems and Products.
1993	Sequent has cut a strategic relationship with Associates that will put CA's mainframe software on Symmetry 2000s.
1993	The names include Anderson, CGI, Cincom, Associates, Dun and Bradstreet, Lawson, Oracle, Peoplesoft, SAP, SAS, Softlab and Software AG.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp duly announced its Sparcstation 10 systems last week, claiming they deliver up to ten times the performance of existing systems and feature the lowest-cost multiprocessing RISC server on the market.
1993	Current Pyramid Corporate MIServers have up to 12 33MHz MIPS Systems Inc R3000 processors, and are rated at up to 468 transactions per second (UX No 329).
1993	Although Interactive Systems Corp products will decline as competitive offerings now that the company has been incorporated into SunSoft Inc, Unix-on-Intel house, Santa Cruz Operation Inc, is likely to face increasingly stiff competition on its turf from the likes of SunSoft, with its Solaris-on-Intel play, Unix System Labs Inc/Univel Inc, which is already proclaiming great things for its cut-down, shrink-wrapped Destiny desktop and NeXT Inc's NextStep environment, if it ever finds its way on to Compaq Corp or any other machines.
1993	ODT was designed originally as a desktop product, but the addition of MPX multi-processing extensions has made it more popular in multi-user environments: it requires an 80386 personal with 8Mb RAM, 100Mb disk and VGA graphics as minimum to run.
1993	SCO claims some 550,000 installations of its Unix-based products on Intel worldwide, and although its ODT business accounted for only 20% of its revenues in 1991 — ODT 1.0 was launched in 1990 — and 25% so far this year, it believes ODT sales will rocket to account for 60% of its sales by next year.
1993	When development of an OSF/1 implementation of ODT for ACE's MIPS Systems Inc RISC architecture passed to DEC, the signs were ominous.
1993	Rubbing salt into the wounds of ACE purists, it's designed for MIPS Systems Inc's R3000 and R4000 RISCs, including MIPS' own ACE/ARC-compliant systems.
1993	CorVision Version 5.0 produces commercial applications in ANSI C source code and is designed to enable users to build client-server applications using MS-DOS or Windows-based personal as clients with a variety of Unix servers.
1993	Sun is pushing the ISDN interface both as a personal productivity tool and as the basis for more complex voice processing and integrated telephony applications.
1993	At their most basic this might be a name and address book that can dial the number selected, but the target is for more sophisticated uses, such as the shared white board approach, where workers can doodle their ideas on the screens linked by one 64kbps B channel, while chatting about them on a phone connected over the second channel.
1993	The other use of TPI is to build proper integrated telephony (CIT) applications, and Sun's entry into this swiftly growing market should shake things up a bit.
1993	Addressing the fragmented state of personal systems management, Intel Corp, Microsoft Corp, Novell Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc's SunConnect and SynOptics Communications Inc came together in Washington last week to announce that they are working together to address iAPX-86-based workstation management issues, specifically resource management, configuration management, performance analysis, software monitoring and security.
1993	Massively parallel supercomputer manufacturer, Convex Corp will this week endorse the Scalable Coherent Interface bus technology, pioneered by Norsk Data affiliate Dolphin Server Technology AS.
1993	Convex has recently adopted Hewlett-Packard Co's PA RISC (with HP acquiring 5% of the company in return), and has an existing relationship with MIPS Systems Inc for its R series RISCs.
1993	Sequoia's current series 300 and 400 fault-tolerant multi-processors, based upon Motorola Inc 68030 and 68040 CPU technology respectively, address the mid-range of that market, where its main competition is Stratus Inc's Intel Corp 80860-based machines and Tandem Inc's MIPS Systems Inc RISC line.
1993	Associates, for instance, claimed there was ‘a huge market — you can't imagine it’ for its new product, CA-Unicenter, which is currently in beta-testing on HP platforms.
1993	Associates, SAS, Pilot Executive, Anderson, Cincom and Texas Instruments are currently only working on HP-UX ports, the rest also have MPE/IX projects on the go.
1993	Mark Williams Co of Northbrook, Illinois bills the 4.0 release of its Coherent Unixalike as the answer to an impecunious Unix-lover's prayer, describing it as the first inexpensive, easy-to-use, 32-bit clone of Unix and ‘smaller, faster, and less expensive than any other Unix operating system for the Personal ’.
1993	In the UK, Barclays Operations, Knutsford, Cheshire, which was set up in January 1991 by Barclays Bank Plc to provide in-house facilities management, is stepping out into the commercial marketplace with its own offerings — OPM (Operator Presentation Manager), and DataPlace.
1993	DataPlace is a purpose-built environment from which companies that lack the office space can run their systems.
1993	IBM Europe will introduce a new company, ICPI Ltd, and ICPI will launch its family of Ambra bargain basement personal June 4 from the London's BAFTA — where the company launched its RS/6000 back in 1990.
1993	When James Cannavino said last week that IBM Corp was not going to sell personal clones, what he meant was that the things would not carry an IBM logo — and so he could say that IBM was not selling them.
1993	Individual Projects Incorporated Ltd.
1993	By the end of next year, Apple expects to have out PowerPC running Macintosh System 7 — the company is ahead of schedule in converting the software for the chip, CEO John Sculley said.
1993	Apple's out to prove that its alliance with IBM will revolutionise the industry: so it's offering a free video on the subject and picking up leads in the process.
1993	A new UK start-up Thomas Cairns Partnership, Wokingham, Berkshire, is to distribute Acer Corp's full range Unix multi-processing machines and software products: the company, headed up by Tom Cairns, former managing director of Tandom , has a head count of round 70 people.
1993	Olivetti should show off Destiny on its MIPS Systems Inc RISC-based platform.
1993	Control Data Corp last week announced plans to spin off its systems arm into a new company, Control Data Systems Inc, and rename the software and services rump of the company Ceridian Corp.
1993	Bowing to the logic we have suggested here (UX Nos 381, 384), Silicon Graphics Inc will take a 10% stake in Control Data Systems, and NEC Corp may take a 5% stake to seal a deal under which the new company will commit to NEC's versions of the MIPS Systems Inc RISC.
1993	Lawrence Perlman, president and chief executive, will hold the same posts at Ceridian and James Ousley, who has headed the Products business for three years, will be president and chief executive of Control Data Systems.
1993	Control Data Systems will continue to sell and support Silicon Graphics and MIPS Systems workstations and servers as part of its systems integration activities.
1993	Following last week's licensing agreement with Convex Corp, for its pioneering Scalable Coherent Interface bus architecture (UX No 386), Norsk Data affiliate, Dolphin Server Technologies AS, Oslo, Norway, has spun out a separate company, Dolphin SCI Technology AS.
1993	With Convex already under its belt, Dolphin is now understood to be courting Data General Corp, and already selling SCI simulation systems and high level design language implementations to the likes of Apple Inc and the Centre for Research into Nucleonics, Geneva, Switzerland.
1993	With the dBase world now concentrated in the powerful hands of Borland International (since its Ashton-Tate acquisition), Microsoft Corp (with its pending Fox Software Inc acquisition) and Associates International (which made a move on Clipper developer Nantucket Corp at the beginning of May), efforts to develop the various languages into an ANSI standard under the Xbase tag have now begun at the American National Standards Institution in Scottsdale, Arizona.
1993	The announcement a week ago that the company was seeking new equity financing made it pretty clear that the end was nigh for Littleton, Massachusetts-based massively parallel systems builder Alliant Systems Corp, and the company announced last week that the boom has fallen when it fired all but 50 of its 225 employees and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
1993	The company, building massively parallel scientific Unix machines around the Intel Corp 80860 RISC, will suspend development and most direct sales of new systems, while continuing to provide service and sales of systems and expansion products to its installed customer base of some 600 worldwide.
1993	Tadpole Technology Plc, Cambridge, UK reports that its Austin, Texas-based US operation has won a singular accolade from Sun Microsystems Inc: Sun's Lincoln, Massachusetts-based SunExpress unit is to carry the Sparcbook Unix-based notebook , offering it to end users and resellers via its SunExpress telemarketing sales operation.
1993	IBM Corp and Apple Inc are trolling Japan and Europe looking for folks willing to join a consortium to create a multimedia standard around a cross-platform compound document specification and ‘Kaleida Script,’ a common scripting language based on AppleScript that would be co-developed, according to Electronic Engineering Times.
1993	Following its agreements with Maspar Corp and Intel Corp, DEC now has three more conventional massively parallel streams on the go — the Single Instruction-Multiple Data machines that it will build using MasPar's chip, the Multiple Instruction-Multiple Data machines it plans using Intel's 80860XP chip and technology, and an Alpha-based massively parallel machine set for 1995.
1993	Putting its money where its mouth is, Sun Microsystems Inc is downsizing its internal operations to the client-server model using Sparcstations and Sparcservers and is yanking out its mainframe.
1993	It has signed on undisclosed terms to use Oracle Corp's manufacturing and financial applications, including software engineering products worldwide; Oracle Manufacturing will be installed in Sun Microsystems Corp manufacturing plants worldwide and Oracle Financials will be installed throughout Sun's subsidiaries, including sites in Europe, Asia and North America in what is claimed to be the first-ever distributed system to address multi-site, multi-plant, multi-country, and multi-lingual requirements; the value of the pact to Oracle was not given.
1993	HaL Systems will sell NetLabs Inc's NetLab/Manager software as an option on its Sparc machines when they arrive: HaL apparently intends to build applications on top of the basic network management tool.
1993	The version for SunOS supports all features and functions found in the Aion Development System Version 6.0, including the Aion High Performance Option for faster and leaner compiled knowledge bases; relational database interfaces, providing direct access to external databases; and an application programming interface for linking to external programs, specialised data and different .
1993	Sequoia Systems Inc is joining the rush to fit out Unix systems with all the aids and facilities that mainframe users take for granted, and reckons that it is one up on its competitors with software that continuously monitors all the functions of a system and immediately notifies operators of problems in operations or applications — even if it did have to go out-of-house to get it.
1993	It believes that the new LightsOut software is the first unattended event monitoring program from a supplier of Unix-based fault-tolerant .
1993	It monitors all local and remote elements in a system, including attached devices such as printers, terminals, administrator consoles and communications links in addition to cost-system functions.
1993	SAS supports access to a range of mainframe, personal and Unix database managers and spreadsheets and will run from day one on DEC's Alpha RISC boxes under Open VMS and OSF/1 when they are launched.
1993	So why a version for the NeXT Inc NextStep environment?
1993	Why no Apple Inc Macintosh SAS system?
1993	Having focused on the more traditional platforms in the past it's no surprise that Unix is SAS' fastest growing market — 20% of new business in the UK is Unix, it says.
1993	A new report from IT specialist Dr James Martin and London-based Applied Learning International finds that amongst the largest user organisations in the UK and Ireland, IBM still leads the way as far as mainframe, mid-range and personal installations go.
1993	Dun expects at least 20% of its 14,000 customers worldwide to downsize their operations to Unix systems.
1993	IBM Europe's clone subsidiary, Individual Products Ltd, due to be launched on June 4, looks to kick off with at least three new systems: sources say that there will be a desktop, a notebook and mini-tower, the first two using the 80386SX, the tower an 80486SX; all may be bundled with Microsoft Corp's Windows and use the AT bus; there are rumours of a degree of channel conflict with suggestions that the systems will be sold not only through the direct channel, but there are no details yet about alternative distribution; the launch will be phased across Europe and France will be next in line.
1993	Despite a disconcerting 85% plunge in net profits to just $94.5m, Fujitsu Ltd, bolstered by the acquisition of ICL Plc is putting rapidly increasing distance between itself and the other contenders for the title ‘world's second-biggest company’: some commentators illegitimately eliminate Fujitsu's semiconductor sales from the total simply because the company sells more of its chip output on the merchant market than do IBM Corp, Digital Equipment Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co, but all of Fujitsu's $26,640m annual turnover is information technology-related — and the company is now nearly twice the size of the $14,000m-a-year DEC, and well over a third the size of IBM; only a decade ago, IBM was more like 10 times the size of the next biggest manufacturer.
1993	One of DEC's principal Alpha RISC architects, Richard Witek, has reportedly bolted to Apple Inc.
1993	MIPS Systems Inc took another hit when OEM sales vice president Stratton Sclavos jumped ship to join the PenPoint operating system designer Go Corporation as vice president worldwide sales.
1993	Associates and Lotus are likely add their endorsements.
1993	Whether IBM, DEC, Hewlett-Packard Co and Apple Inc will be sending envoys in a show of solidarity remained to be seen as we went to press last week.
1993	The newly formed Control Data Systems Inc (UX No 387), is currently designing a higher performance, higher clock-speed implementation of MIPS Systems Inc's R6000 ECL RISC — possibly utilising multiple CPU modules — which it will announce later this year for the 4860MP quad-processor that MIPS builds for it, according to chief executive officer, James Ousley.
1993	The UK, Cambridge-based Olivetti Research Laboratory, ORL, funded jointly by Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and DEC, has been doing a lot of work on the so-called ‘active badge’ technology — infra-red location devices linked to and telephone systems.
1993	On 14 May 1992 the Russian Parliament finally passed the second and final hearing of the Program and Database Protection Law.
1993	There is a mechanism for the voluntary registration of programs and databases.
1993	This law conforms to a European Commission Directive on Legal Protection Of Programs, adopted by the European Community last year.
1993	Prime Inc said it is continuing to weigh various capitalisation schemes, ‘including capital market transactions’ but would not confirm a report in the Wall Street Journal that it is in the midst of talks that would lead it to going public again, Reuter reports from Boston.
1993	UK, Cambridge-based IXI Ltd has reportedly cut a deal for that ever mysterious Sparc follower, HaL Systems — whose range of OLTP machines are still waiting in the wings to be introduced — to standardize on its X.desktop interface.
1993	And the speech was indeed a frank catalogue of the state of the personal business today: revenues down 14%, Apple Inc, IBM and DEC contemplating low margins and sinking market share, the astronomical cost of developing a new package, the failure of PCs to penetrate much beyond word processing and spreadsheets, the monopoly lock of a few software houses on the marketplace and engineering's inability to develop an intuitive box, all conspiring to dissuade any sensible PC guy from putting any more money into research and development.
1993	The specific accords, which range from five to 10 years in duration, encompass high-end, open-systems products based on the IBM RISC; networking and interoperability; specific operational and purchasing agreements; technology co-operation and licensing; manufacturing; and portable personal from Zenith Data Systems.
1993	Bull is licensed to develop and build products based on IBM technologies such as the RISC architectures and the AIX Unix operating system, as well as the right to develop products based on research generated at the Somerset Design Centre in Austin, Texas, where Apple Inc and Motorola Inc are also partners.
1993	And Zenith will provide IBM with customised portable personal for inclusion in the IBM product line.
1993	The parties are also defining potential new relationships in the area of portable personal development based on the Zenith technology.
1993	DIA vice president Steve Jones — also managing director of UK Unix connectivity software specialist, JSB Systems Ltd, Macclesfield — says his company is talking to DEC about support under VMS.
1993	Microvitec is currently readying a colour AlphaWindows terminal for an August release, priced at £750, which supports standard personal keyboards and Microsoft Corp mice.
1993	It is a full implementation of Network File System under MVS bridging mainframes and Unix networks and from there to other Network File System machines such as MS-DOS personal , Macs and VAXs.
1993	A few weeks ago amidst the barrage of pot-shots that Next Inc chief executive officer, Steve Jobs, was taking at Sun Microsystems Inc, Sun president, Scott McNealy, privately swore Jobs was ‘fried.’
1993	Tribble, one of the original Mac architects at Apple Inc responsible for its now famous user interface design and less famous operating system, is one of the few real experts around on object-oriented programming.
1993	ICL is to offer a shrink-wrapped version of Unix SVR4 on its so-called ‘Spring Collection’ of deskside and desktop Intel Corp 80486-based personal and servers launched recently, and says it may offer that implementation on other manufacturers' PCs too.
1993	Xcelerated Systems Inc, San Diego has rushed out Version 1.2 of its Liken software, the program that enables applications written for the Apple Inc Macintosh Classic to run unchanged on Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcstations.
1993	No price mark has been suggested for the nCube 3. nCube claims its multi-purpose machines offer a price-performance ratio that is 20 times superior to present-day mainframe , making them highly suitable for the commercial data processing market, particularly as Oracle Parallel Server is now shipping with current models.
1993	Coral Springs, Florida-based Citrix Systems Inc has so far not made much of an impact in the market with its multi-user versions of personal operating systems, notably the Multiuser version of OS/2, which uses code licensed from Microsoft Corp — but Microsoft reckons that the company may have something anyway, and has now signed a ‘strategic alliance’ agreement with Citrix.
1993	In the heady days of 1988, when CDC had revenues of some $3,600m, the company had three main revenue streams: a financial wing which dealt with leasing of its Cyber mainframe series, the MPI peripherals business and the systems, services and software arm.
1993	The remaining third has now effectively been chopped into two pieces with the formation of a systems arm, Control Data Systems Inc, CDS, and Ceridian Corp, the rump of its software and services business.
1993	CDC's talks with its OEM RISC Unix system supplier, Silicon Graphics Inc — which has now taken a 10% stake in CDS — started (unbeknown to CDC at the time, Ousley claims) in parallel with SGI's negotiations for its chip supplier, MIPS Systems Inc.
1993	AT&T's NCR Federal Systems Division is upgrading some of the products it is supplying as part of US government contracts: it has added the AT&T StarStation 386 DX PC to its $800 million, eight-year Office Automation Technology and Services (OATS) contract with the the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) which it won back in in 1989 — 12,500 Intel 80386-based personal and 2,500 laptops have been shipped so far — and has upgraded supplied under the 1988, $1bn Standard Multi-user Small Requirements Contract to run Unix SVR4.
1993	The Newton Personal Digital Assistants from Apple Inc will be built around the Advanced RISC Computing Ltd ARM610 RISC: Apple says that the first version of Newton will be out early next year, and will be an electronic notepad, able to record and recognise handwriting and to straighten out rough sketches; Cambridge-based Advanced RISC Machines, which is owned by Acorn Plc, Apple and VLSI Technology Inc says that Newton has an object-oriented executive and that the memory manager in the ARM610 provides specific support for object-oriented data handling.
1993	For what it's worth, Silicon Graphics Inc and MIPS Systems Inc are understood to be drawing together a new executive-level technical committee of the Advanced Computing Environment.
1993	Now focused on a single-chip (MIPS) strategy, the group reportedly includes representatives of SGI, MIPS, Control Data Systems Inc, Tandem Inc plus the MIPS RISC fabrication companies.
1993	The CD-ROM circulated will hold both Intel Corp and MIPS Systems Inc code plus compilers and debuggers.
1993	UK, Macclesfield firm, JSB Systems Ltd's US operation, out in Scotts Valley, California (UX No 347), has had a few teething troubles — it is some $200,000 short of its initial target and has undergone a few staff changes — however JSB managing director, Steve Jones says the unit turned in $150,000 last month and is now holding its own.
1993	NEC Corp is now such a star in workstations in the Japanese market that Sanyo Electric Corp, which had developed its own Icon workstations around the MIPS Systems Inc R-series RISC, has decided instead to work with NEC on MIPS-based workstations and buy the resulting products in OEM, the Nikkei Industrial Daily reports.
1993	Sanyo has tried to be active in the personal market as a member of the Japanese-language AT-compatible AX PC group, but has an almost negligible share within Japan, with most sales coming in OEM from Europe and the US.
1993	The two plan to work together on development of hardware and software components that support Fibre Channel Standard optical-link technology, not only for the RS/6000 but ultimately for connection to mainframes and other mid-range systems such as IBM's AS/400, personal and peripherals.
1993	Prime Inc has now filed for its expected return as a public company — under which it will change its name to Computervision Corp, and intends to offer 15.8m shares at a target price of $18 to $20, concurrent with an offer of $125m of senior notes due 1999.
1993	As expected, the Systems Business Unit will be sold to its management.
1993	Whilst ICL has duly announced that it is to support Santa Cruz Operation's SCO Unix MPX for multi-processing, Open Desktop environment and the SCO communications suite on its Intel Corp 80486-based personal , the OfficePower-on-SCO validation work — see above — was actually carried out on an Apricot Ltd box.
1993	Velocity 3.0 is targeted at the Motorola Inc 680X0 and MIPS Systems Inc R4000 CPUs initially.
1993	Open/OLTP TM2 includes transactional desktop, terminal concentrator and conversational transaction support features, which, the company says, increases the options for integrating personal and Unix systems into distributed client/server networks.
1993	The transactional desktop element allows networked personal running MS-DOS or Windows to run the client portions of Open/OLTP downloaded from the server.
1993	Tesseract will port Primrose to Unix by year end using Sequent Systems Inc and Pyramid Technology Corp multi-processors.
1993	Alameda, California-based Uniface Corp will this week be staging a four-city telecast, rolling out its new Universal Presentation Interface and promising that developers will be able to build database applications that automatically deploy on running Motif, Open Look, Windows, Presentation Manager or even character mode without writing a single line of additional code.
1993	In the hope that it will lock them in to the MIPS Systems Inc RISC family, Silicon Graphics Inc has persuaded eight of the major MIPS chip users and fabricators — Control Data Systems Inc, Integrated Device Technology Inc, NEC Corp, Sumishomo Electronics Co Ltd, Sumitomo Corp, Tandem Inc, Tata Enterprises Overseas Pte Ltd and Toshiba America Electronic Components Inc to participate in a modest way in the share offering it is making to raise cash to bolster the balance sheet of its MIPS Systems acquisition.
1993	Such cross-shareholdings are commonplace in Japan and in continental Europe, but tend not to work so well in the US — Control Data had 20% of Silicon Graphics and sold it; Compaq Corp sold the stake it bought to cement the Advanced Computing Environment Initiative in less than a year.
1993	He notes that the General is selling more than ‘ever before in our lives’.
1993	Interleaf 5 is scheduled to ship in August on DEC Ultrix, Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcstations, Hewlett-Packard Co PA RISC Unix systems and Data General AViiON — no prices were given.
1993	IBM Corp has gone to the Distributed Computing Solutions arm of General Atomics Inc, San Diego for its UniTree file and storage management software ‘for use and distribution on the entire line of IBM ,’ although it seems likely that it will be confined to running under Unix for now.
1993	UniTree, used primarily in the scientific world — Convex Corp has an implementation and Floating Point Systems Inc picked it up before it turned up its toes — is an implementation of the IEEE Mass Storage Reference Model and automatically migrates files among disk and tape libraries.
1993	Milpitas, California-based, LSI Logic Corp is catapulting itself into the X terminal market introducing the RISC-based Racer X Board, which allows OEMs to build monochrome or colour X-terminals based on the MIPS Systems Inc R3000 RISC.
1993	The Racer X Board is also, says LSI, destined for the personal and Apple Inc Macintosh markets.
1993	A single slot graphics controller, X8 boosts ISA/ESA-bus compatible personal into workstations, and has a screen resolution of 1280 x 1024.
1993	Insignia Solutions Ltd, a sturdy member of the tiny band of small UK and software companies making their mark across the Atlantic, reports from its Mountain View, California Insignia Solutions Inc base that it has raised $4.75m in ‘mezzanine’ financing from Technology Venture Investors of Menlo Park, California, which gets one seat on the board of the High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire company's board; the investment is its first in a foreign company.
1993	Electronic News hears that Stratus Inc is readying new Intel Corp i860-based fault tolerant systems for introduction later in the year: Stratus currently offers two uniprocessor machines, and will likely bring out its first multi-processor, based on the faster i860XP part.
1993	Santa Cruz Operation Inc says that Zenith Data Systems will ship its Open Desktop Release 2.0 as an optional feature of its new Z-Station and Z-Server , pre-installed, pre-configured, tested, and supported with a choice of third-party communications options on the Z-Station tower, or bundled with some Z-Station desktop machines.
1993	The International Association of Hewlett-Packard Users' annual conference takes place in New Orleans, Louisiana, between August 23–27.
1993	It sees no problem with adding the Alpha architecture to the MIPS Systems Inc and Intel Corp-based systems it currently offers, a trail that DEC is already blazing in any case, but it has to figure out whether and how it will be able to address the window of opportunity it reckons the industry is now creating with the latest round of hardware and software announcements, and of course, how deep it would have to dig into its back pocket.
1993	Following the news that the IBM Corp and Apple Inc PowerPC RISC effort is coming on in leaps and bounds (UX No 384), rumours floated on the airwaves last week that the first boxes built around the architecture will be out by the end of this year.
1993	Apple Inc, a new face in the crowd, also sent observers.
1993	Peter Watts, currently the president of Tangent, will head up the new venture, which will use ISDN technology, allowing for electronic software distribution and simultaneous voice, data and image conferencing, all areas on which Unilinx has it long range sights.
1993	Bundled in is an application builder based on Builder Xcessory from integrated Solutions of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
1993	The most interesting of a myriad of other partnerships and endorsements comes from HaL Systems Inc, which is working with USL to make the future versions of SVR4.2 into the 64-bit world.
1993	In mode 3, the systems run concurrently, enabling single image access to data from both .
1993	Some 90% of sales have been for databases, electronic mail systems and Aided Design.
1993	Destiny will figure further down Olivetti's range, on personal and the M700.
1993	For fault tolerance, Olivetti has extended its relationship with Stratus Inc to include the company's two Intel 80860-based systems, to be sold as the LSX 4500 worldwide — with the exception of the UK.
1993	The KSR1 is scalable to 1,088 custom 64-bit CMOS processors and the company claims it to be the fastest currently available and deliverable, a full KSR1–1088 configuration delivering peak performance of 43 GFLOPS with 34Gb of memory.
1993	It says that several customers have placed orders for KRS1 with more than 32 processors, including one from the Cornell Theory Center.
1993	Indian terminal manufacturer VXL Instruments Ltd has set up base in Rugby, Warwickshire in the UK.
1993	It sells its products primarily on an OEM basis, its customers in India including the local subsidiaries of Digital Equipment Corp, Hewlett-Packard Co, Groupe Bull SA, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA, ICL Plc's International Indian Manufacture Pte Ltd affiliate, and Unisys Corp.
1993	The hardware used for this system will be the DS/90 7000 series from ICL Plc, as the server, while clients running IFOS-Lite software can be one of a number of personal including the IBM Japan Ltd PS/55 and NEC Corp 9800 series as well as Fujitsu's own FMR series.
1993	The system offers electronic mail, electronic diary and schedule management services at the corporate, departmental and individual level and can be configured with six different options including gateway services to other mail centres and host .
1993	The centre has been opened to provide facilities for third parties to validate and convert their software for a number of different multivendor systems, including 27 types of workstation — DS/90 series, the S Family bought OEM from Sun Microsystems Inc, Fujitsu's proprietary A series, the FM G series personal , as well as Hewlett-Packard Co Apollo, IBM RS/6000, and Sony News, a number of different personal including Apple Inc Macintosh and NEC Corp machines, and various local and wide area network software.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co has extended its HP 9000 Series 1200 line of fault-tolerant Unix systems sourced from Sequoia Systems Inc downwards with the launch of the entry-level HP 9000 Model 1210, claiming that it substantially outperforms fault-tolerant offerings from Tandem Inc, Stratus Inc and Digital Equipment Corp by as much as 100% in transaction processing work.
1993	MIPS Systems Inc is desperate to be seen to be non-aligned once it is part of Silicon Graphics Inc, and to that end, it has rallied 12 of the industry Great and the Good to help guide the future directions of the MIPS microprocessor architecture and help ensure that it remains competitive and open.
1993	The 12 worthies are Stan Shih, chairman of Acer Inc; James Ousley, president of Control Data Systems Inc; Paul Maritz, senior vice-president, Microsoft Corp; Robert Miller, chairman of MIPS, and John Hennessy, its chief scientist; Hajime Sasaki, senior vice-president, NEC Corp; Elserino Piol, vice-chairman and chief operating officer, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA; Dr Thomas Longo, chairman of Performance Semiconductor Corp; Dr Horst Nasko, vice-chairman, Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG; Forest Baskett, senior vice-president, Silicon Graphics; James Treybig, president of Tandem Inc; and D. Hideharu Egawa, vice-president and director, Toshiba Semiconductor Group.
1993	The four companies will integrate mainframe and personal technologies to provide fault-tolerant open systems platforms for 24-hour-a-day processing of patient records, insurance claims, lab data and the like.
1993	ASSOCIATES TO BUNDLE UNIX SOFTWARE ON HP KIT BY YEAR-END
1993	Following its decision to move into the Unix arena (UX No 317), Associates International, is angling to get its first batch of Unix-based applications out the door by the end of the year.
1993	CA has also set up a similar bundling agreement for CA-Unicenter with Sequent Systems Inc, however, this version still has a lot of work to be done on it and isn't likely to appear until this time in 1993.
1993	To guarantee integrity and fault tolerance, CA has ambled down the road to Tandem Inc, and is currently in the labs developing a Unicenter version for Tandem's Guardian, fault-tolerant operating system.
1993	The company explains this by saying that a co-operative-server database hides the complexity of a network by enabling applications to access data located on multiple as if all the data were stored on a single , thus simplifying application building and — it is hoped — improving decisions by making access to information easier.
1993	The Oracle7 co-operative-server database has been designed to support SQL query and update transactions that automatically retrieve and modify data on multiple servers, and to enable a group of low-cost servers to outperform the largest mainframe, which will not make the thing very popular with IBM Corp, and should offer high reliability because there is no single point of failure.
1993	A group of low cost server running the Oracle7 co-operative-server database can easily support thousands of users running thousands of transactions per second, the company claims, in theory making the system infinitely scalable and addressing the market for emerging very large databases that contain image, text, voice and other multimedia data.
1993	The tool kit includes a database remote procedure call facility to simplify writing the program when the application program and the non-Oracle data source are on different .
1993	To resolve the problem that most organisations have multiple networks that communicate using different network protocols, the multiprotocol networking software in Oracle7 is designed to enable any client to communicate with any server or group of server in the network, regardless of network protocol.
1993	Oracle reports TPC-A benchmark results of 605.27 transactions per second on a Sequent Systems Inc Symmetry 2000/750, simulating 6,050 users for a $10,919 per transaction per second cost; 560.87 tpsB at a cost of $2,970 per tpsB on a Digital Equipment Corp VAX 6000 Model 660; 100.85 tpsB on a Data General Corp AViiON 4635 server for a cost of $1,588 per tpsB; and 578 tpsA on a Hewlett-Packard Co HP 9000 Corporate Business Server 890 with four processor boards for a cost of $11,901 per tpsA.
1993	NEW X-TERMINALS FROM JAPAN CORP
1993	Japan Corp, based in Tokyo but with a US office in Fort Lee, New Jersey, has introduced a new series of X-terminals.
1993	White Pines Software Inc, Nashua, New Hampshire, which started out offering X-server software for the Macintosh, has now introduced new X-server products for both Microsoft Windows and the NeXT , under its brand name eXodus.
1993	Version 9, Sun Microsystems Inc's specification for the next generation of Sparc architecture, which includes 64-bit requirements, has been rubber-stamped by Amdahl Corp, Ericsson, Fujitsu Ltd, HaL Systems, Hyundai, ICL, Interactive Systems, LSI Logic, Matsushita, Oracle Corp, Philips International, Ross Technology, Texas Instruments and Sun itself.
1993	Associates is co-sponsoring ‘The Great Debate’ at Alice Tully Hall in the Lincoln Centre in New York on June 22, discussing the need for a US technology policy: Speakers include Gordon Bell, Larry Michels, Roger Sippl, Morgan Stanley senior economist Stephen Roach, Senate Defense Industry and Technology subcommittee chairman Jeff Bingaman, and Harvard University JFK School of Government moderator Marvin Kalb.
1993	UK manufacturer, Cambridge Micro Ltd, has introduced an Intel Corp 80486-based server system running Santa Cruz Operation Inc Open Desktop which it says can support up to 100 workstations — the 20 MIPS, 50MHz machine comes with up to 6Gb disk and will integrate with Novell Inc NetWare, TCP/IP and Microsoft Lan Manager networks, no prices given.
1993	Solbourne has plucked Charles Barbour, a founder of both Apollo and Stellar, as its vice president of engineering.
1993	Aachen, Germany-based Parsytec GmbH's US subsidiary in West Chicago has announced Parix, the ‘second-generation’ parallel Unix-based development environment developed for its indefinitely-forthcoming GC Series of T9000 Transputer-based MIMD supercomputers by Amsterdam-based Associated Experts BV: aimed specifically at scientists and research engineers, it can be used on any Parsytec system with 16 or more nodes, which is hooked up to a Sun Microsystems Inc workstation as a front end; a Parsytec 62-node MultiCluster I with Parix is from $100,000.
1993	The aggregate turnover of the Indian industry rose 27% in the year to March to reach $1,000m, according to the Manufacturers Association for Information Technology; exports of hardware and software totalled $105m, up from $88m.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc is apparently more than interested in sticking Microsoft NT on its Symmetry platforms.
1993	Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and Novell Inc duly announced the signing of a Master Business Agreement, which covers full support of NetWare within the Olivetti Open System Architecture and joint marketing activities between the two: Olivetti is taking NetWare for Unix and will do a version for System V.4 on Intel Corp iAPX-86 and on its MIPS Systems Inc RISC-based machines; it will also take Novell's System Fault Tolerant III technology for some servers, including multiprocessor machines, and they will be fully integrated with Novell's NetWare Management System.
1993	A very unhappy MicroMuse Ltd was bemoaning the theft from its stand of a Toshiba Corp laptop at the Software Tools show in Wembley, London last week: the machine looks identical to a Toshiba 5200 but was in fact a Sparc LT engineering sample with Solaris loaded and the company warns the thief that it is the only one of its type in the UK and is very traceable.
1993	Fault-tolerant systems manufacturer Stratus Inc will join the exodus out of the Intel Corp 80860 RISC camp after one more iteration and has decided to switch to the Hewlett-Packard Co Precision Architecture RISC.
1993	Alliant Inc, which used the 80860 in high-end parallel systems recently filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.
1993	As well as NCR Corp, which appears to have favoured Solaris over Destiny, the desktop Unix environment now on offer from parent AT&T's Unix System Laboratories Inc — effectively a rival product — ICL plc, Zenith Data Systems, Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA and Everex Systems Inc join those personal manufacturers who have already committed to Sun's Unix offering, including Dell Inc, Toshiba Corp, AST Research Inc, CompuAdd Corp and NetFrame Systems Inc.
1993	Texas Instruments Inc finally threw in the towel on the wasting asset of its business, and signed a letter of intent to sell it to Hewlett-Packard Co on undisclosed terms.
1993	The business is estimated to be doing about $200m a year, and a key attraction for the Cupertino company is that Texas sells almost exclusively through resellers, and Hewlett-Packard sees big potential in mobilising that army to take on board its own products as well.
1993	The acquisition will result in an as yet undetermined number of lay-offs because Hewlett-Packard is planning to offer jobs to about 450 of the 1,600 employees in the worldwide Systems & Services business, primarily employees currently in field and customer services functions.
1993	Hewlett-Packard gets a base of some 125,000 multi-user , and will continue to offer the existing line until users are ready to migrate to Precision Architecture.
1993	The sale does not include any other Texas businesses — notebook , printers, the software engineering and distributed computing tools, telecommunications systems, or the process automation systems.
1993	Seems we should not be surprised: Unix System Labs says it's close to a deal with Apple Inc for the Macintosh interface (UX No 390).
1993	In the process it's picked up HaL Systems Inc, the most famous of the no-product-yet companies, to stand up and say it was doing its own Version 9 implementation, claiming to be ‘well under way.’
1993	MIPS Systems, on the other hand, has the first RISC which will support Windows NT.
1993	Finally, at the low end, Acorn spin-off, Advanced RISC Machines, seems set to battle it out with AT&T's Hobbit RISC in the handheld market — ARM has been taken up for Apple's Newton range, while Hobbit is expected to be the RISC target for Go Corp's PenPoint operating system.
1993	Compiled versions of OSF/1 release 1.1K — integrated kernel — are out on three reference platforms, Intel Corp's 80386-based 302, Digital's MIPS Systems Inc RISC-based DECstation 3100 and Encore 's National Semiconductor-based Multimax.
1993	MasPar Corp, Jeff Kalb's Sunnyvale, California-based single instruction-multiple data massively parallel supercomputer company from which Digital Equipment Corp gets one of its supercomputer offerings, is expected to launch the MP-2, its second generation mid-range machine before the year's out.
1993	The joint venture, to be known as Unified Technologies, is aimed at transforming this Russian answer to Silicon Valley, in the Moscow suburb of Zelenograd, into a world class producer of semiconductors, peripherals and other products.
1993	The project will be officially launched in Moscow next month, with the first shipments of products to the West due in late 1992.
1993	Some 20,000 researchers at the base are already working on a top secret new THStyme product set for launch next spring, which Peddle promises ‘will change the way that people use ’.
1993	Prime Inc's Framingham, Massachusetts-based PrimeService Inc — soon, as we understand it, to be part of a new quoted company called Computervision Corp — has launched Connection NetWare for Sparc, which it describes as an open architecture version of Novell Inc's NetWare operating system running under Sun Microsystems Inc's SunOS version of Unix.
1993	The company says that it enables MS-DOS, OS/2 and Apple Inc Macintosh users to share data, print services and applications on Sparc systems while retaining the existing operating environments; certified by Novell Inc, the product will be sold directly and through manufacturers and resellers.
1993	The 10-year-old public company, 75% owned by venture capitalist Safeguard Scientifics Inc, specialises in Unix, MS-DOS and Windows-based connectivity products for standalone or networked personal and workstations.
1993	In the UK, Rabbit's distributor is a company called Accent Ltd, based in Burgess Hill, West Sussex.
1993	Toshiba Corp has now been drawn into the IBM-Apple Inc alliance following the announcement that it and Apple have an agreement to develop multimedia technology, combining Apple software skills with Toshiba's expertise in semiconductors and consumer electronics.
1993	The 603, for use in portable and the 604 for mainstream desktop applications, will be available in limited quantities in the second half of 1993.
1993	The first Apple Inc PowerPC systems are expected to sell for under $2,000 — these will be true Macintosh systems running Macintosh applications.
1993	Although there are some formidable technological hurdles to overcome, the concept is already being put into practice in several projects, most prominently from where Mace stands, in the IBM Corp/Apple Inc/Motorola Inc effort to bring some of the functionality found in Motorola's 680x0 and 88000 processor families onto the PowerPC RISC architecture the three are developing, as well as maintaining binary compatibility with IBM's RS/6000 Power RISC.
1993	Sun Microsystems Inc has a new desktop SBus Expansion Subsystem that provides three more SBus slots for several of the its workstations and servers, and enables use of single and double width boards; it also accommodates up to two 424Mb disk drives and will be available from Sun Microsystems Corp and SunExpress at $2,500 in July.
1993	Unix distributor, Irvine, California-based UniDirect Inc, has reportedly cut a deal that will have Dell Corp passing on all calls for application software certified on its machines to UniDirect as leads or orders.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp has established Sun Mexico as its 19th subsidiary worldwide, and its second subsidiary in Latin America.
1993	Meanwhile, Berkeley's Science Research Group has announced that it is to end its work on BSD 4.4 following the final releases this year.
1993	Dr Douglas Greer, ex Berkeley and now at the European Research Centre in Munich, said that in the early days of Unix CSRG did a lot to make the system more modern and usable.
1993	Meanwhile, Cray Research and AEG AG subsidiary, Modular Systems Inc, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, have signed an agreement under which ModComp will license its Real/IX real-time Unix operating system technology to Cray.
1993	DEC already buys Olivetti desktop personal OEM for resale in Europe, and notebook for sale worldwide.
1993	Silicon Graphics Inc completed its acquisition of MIPS Systems Inc, paying 0.52 shares for each of MIPS' 26m shares outstanding.
1993	Having failed to asset copyright on the 80386 name and 386 tag, Intel Corp is in a real bind over the P5, and according to Reseller News has decided not to call it the 80586.
1993	The UltraNet RS/6000 Network Processor is claimed to deliver effective application performance in excess of four times that of a standard block multiplexer mainframe channel, and an order of magnitude faster than other RS/6000 network connections such as Ethernet, Token Ring and FDDI — in other words it runs at 1Gbps or over 100Mbytes per second, coming close to matching network bandwidth with bandwidth.
1993	Advanced Visual Sytems Inc, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based spin-out from now defunct Stardent Systems Inc, is attempting to put the past behind it and do its own thing with former parent's flagship graphics software environment, the Application Visualisation System.
1993	For a start, 80% of its staff come from the former graphics system builder, which was itself born of a marriage made in hell between bitter rivals Ardent Inc and Stellar Corp back in 1989.
1993	Santa Clara, California-based Kubota Pacific Inc, the US subsidiary of Japan's Kubota Corp, has delayed the release of its plug-in graphics subsystem for the MIPS Systems Inc R3000 RISC-based Titan 1.0 it sells, and the DEC Alpha-based Titan 2.0 machine which it is readying.
1993	Sequent Corp confirmed last week reports that it is to move into the multi-processor PC ‘superserver’ business, basing its software strategy around Microsoft Corp's forthcoming NT operating system (UX No 390).
1993	Following the painful and not yet complete absorption of Nixdorf, Siemens' product line is a mishmash of iAPX-86, 68000 family and MIPS Systems Inc R-series processors, and Siemens fabricates the R-series, but the company also had a long-standing OEM relationship with Apollo Inc that continued after that company was acquired by Hewlett-Packard.
1993	Well the money would be very welcome at a company that is again finding that are a gurgling cash drain, and a single outside investor is very different matter to a host of fractious small shareholders and institutional investors.
1993	Next Inc, which has been through a tidy sum already, has gotten further financing: this time a $55m credit line from Canon Inc and another $10m from Steve Jobs himself — both are former investors already.
1993	The Zenith Data Systems personal subsidiary of Groupe Bull SA has officially announced what everybody that cared already knew: it's out of ACE.
1993	Pyramid Technology Corp, Mountain View, California, has been taking something of a backseat role in telling the world about its newest developments lately: most recently Ing C Olivetti & Co SpA was left to deliver Pyramid's latest MIPS Systems Inc-based R3000 and R400MP siblings at its bash in Rome a couple of weeks ago (UX No 390).
1993	By what route this strategy will proceed is unclear — technology swapping, OEM or other — however, the company admits that it probably would have been a good idea had Tandem Inc and Pyramid had meshed their respective hardware and Unix software experience in that area two years ago.
1993	Pyramid also promises a repost to arch rival Sequent Systems Inc's plans to offer Microsoft Corp NT-based superserver systems (UX No 392).
1993	Among the goodies promised for the Autumn release of LAN Server is native support for the Macintosh — co-developed, says Buckland, with Apple .
1993	The LR33050 MIPS IFX Integer and Floating-Point Accelerator processor adds a MIPS Systems Inc R3010-compatible floating point accelerator to LSI Logic's LR33000 Self Embedding processor and is aimed at embedded applications such as X-terminals, colour PostScript printers, robotics, military and avionics applications where power and space constraints are paramount.
1993	Tenon Intersystems Inc, the Santa Barbara, California-based Unix-on-Mac vendor has launched version 2.0 of MachTen, its software that puts the Mach operating system onto Apple Inc's Macintosh.
1993	The enormous structural problems at Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG — a moribund proprietary business systems line coupled with the growing threat to Siemens' own core mainframe business from the accelerating trend towards downsizing and open systems begins to threaten indefinite postponement of financial equilibrium at Europe's largest company.
1993	Siemens AG said last week that it would take longer than previously planned to reduce losses at its and also at its semiconductor divisions, and blamed a continued deterioration in market conditions.
1993	The hard economics of open systems are being addressed in a big way by Tandem Inc, both in products and manufacturing.
1993	It is working on a single hardware architecture for its Guardian and Integrity Unix machines using the MIPS Systems Inc R-series RISCs — it uses the R-series in its latest NonStops, but the architecture is radically different from the three-processor voting fault-tolerance of Integrity.
1993	He argues the company has tried to monopolise the market by convincing customers that its relational database management system is effectively the , making it appear that all other functions and tasks the user may want to perform are bound tightly to the database — requirements that can only be met by other Oracle products.
1993	In what could turn out to be a positive sign for the future of graphical user interfaces, Quorum Software Systems Inc of Menlo Park, California, has resolved its lawsuit with Apple Inc, under terms not disclosed (UX No 385).
1993	As expected, Reading, Berkshire-based Implementors UK Ltd has released a Unix version of its v1.11 PC-based Aided Software Engineering development and migration environment.
1993	JAPAN CORP PLANS NEW PLANT TO SUPPORT ITS EUROPEAN X-STATION PUSH
1993	Japan Corp is to build an X-terminal plant in Niigata Prefecture, investing about $3.9m to construct a plant of 22,500 square feet, which is expected to have a production capacity of 2,000 terminals per month.
1993	Japan Corp is forecasting sales to be up this year by 35%, for total revenues of $23m.
1993	NEC Corp has new MIPS Systems Inc R4000 RISC-based servers and workstations: two new models in its SuperServer UP4800 series and three new models in the EWS4800 workstation series.
1993	Mobium Corp has moved to LSI Logic's 40MHz chips for its new Mirage series of Sparcettes, looking to swap them out when Texas Instruments Inc Vikings become available: the IPS/2 comes diskless at $7,000; $8,600 buys 520Mb disk, 16Mb RAM expandable to 128Mb, three Sbus slots, Weitek Corp floating-point unit and a 17-inch 1152 x 900 colour screen.
1993	VenturCom Inc's real-time E-Venix/386 Unix operating system will now support X-Windows, claimed to be a first for an embedded operating system: the company has made it possible to embed Network File System on a diskless single-board via the E-NFS facility.
1993	Independent Solutions Ltd, London, has developed an interface that allows users to integrate JYACC's Jam rapid application development toolset with Cadre Technologies Inc's Teamwork CASE analysis and design system: Teamwork data flow and entity relationship diagrams can be converted into Jam applications using the interface, subsequent changes and adjustments can be automatically reflected back into the original Teamwork model.
1993	DEC has never used a Western Research Labs-designed architecture, although the unit was originally set up to find ways of building the fastest possible .
1993	Covia has existing agreements with IBM, Tandem Inc, DEC, NCR Corp and Unisys Corp for CI — those ports are currently in beta test, with NCR's likely to be first out of the gate.
1993	Platt, a 26-year HP veteran, is currently executive vice president and head of the the firm's Systems Organisation.
1993	At Object World, NeXT Inc is expected to announce its membership of the Object Management Group.
1993	On the standards side, DEC has announced that it is working with International Software Systems Inc (ISSI), Austin, Texas on an architectural definition and implementation plan for the European Manufacturers Association (ECMA) Portable Common Tool Environment (PCTE) standard.
1993	Stratus Inc has duly expanded its XA/R line of Intel Corp 80860 RISC-based Continuous Processing Systems with nine new models, claiming about 2.5 times the performance of comparably-priced members of the 68000 family-based XA2000 Series (UX No 391).
1993	Having plumped for Hewlett-Packard Co's PA RISC over the Intel i860 —‘because of price/performance’— for its next generation of systems, Stratus plans no further using the i860 at this time, but says that depends to some extent on whether Intel manages another iteration of its RISC.
1993	The promised agreement between Apple Inc and Microsoft Corp calls for the two to work together on future technologies to help ensure a smooth and long-term evolution for customers of Microsoft applications for the Apple Macintosh — Microsoft has committed to doing versions of its Macintosh applications for the PowerPC RISC.
1993	Mountain View-based Silicon Graphics Inc has fulfilled its promise to bring out a new family of Iris Indigo RISC personal based on the 50MHz R4000SC RISC from its MIPS Technology subsidiary.
1993	BSDI lawyers went on the offensive last week circulating court documents among the press along with a press release slamming the USL suit as ‘harassing and frivolous’ and harbouring ‘chilling overtones for the software industry.’
1993	BSDI bases its claims of no-licence-required on representations made to it in writing by the University's Systems Research Group.
1993	Developers that have yet to see Intel Corp's P5 microprocessor are in for a shock, because judging by intelligence gleaned by Reseller News in Asia, the new part bears little resemblance to the commodity microprocessors that power tens of millions of personal .
1993	Apricot Ltd, which always likes to be first with Intel's latest chip, will reportedly announce a P5-based machine in September, but with the enormous leap in complexity in the microprocessor, the other major worry has to be that it will take early users of the chip at least 18 months to find all the bugs in it and for Intel to correct them.
1993	Using the nCube Parallel Software Environment, applications developed for an eight-processor nCube 2E system will run unchanged on an nCube 2S with as many as 8,192 processors, so serious potential users can make an affordable investment in the thing to decide whether they really like it before making a real commitment.
1993	According to Barclays Operations, Barclay's services arm which manages the data centres, the old kit was installed over a period of one to four years.
1993	With IBM UK Ltd taking away its RS/6000s and PS/2s and Digital Equipment UK Ltd ready to end its agreement with ICL Plc's Technology Plc personal and workstation distribution acquisition, there has been much frenzied speculation that Sun Microsystems Inc and Compaq Corp are ready to withdraw their products too, and that ICL has dropped a very big brick on its foot in buying the company.
1993	But all that business is not simply going to vanish: ICL will be refilling the channels with its own personal and DRS 6000 and DSR 3000 Unix machines before they even empty of third party machines — and by using a captive distribution network, ICL should be able to improve overall profitability.
1993	SCO and Pegasus are hoping to take advantage of an increased demand for computer-based accounting solutions expected when new accountancy regulations come into force in the UK next year, which will make it very difficult, the two claim, for companies to perform accounting tasks, like payroll, without a .
1993	The Hungarian Unix Users Group, HUUG, and the John von Neumann Society, NJSZT, are organising HUNIX ‘92, an international Unix conference and exhibition in Godolla (15 miles west of Budapest) between September 28th-30th.
1993	Meanwhile, Budapest-based Graphisoft, the privately-held Hungarian software outfit which claims to have sold more CAD packages on Apple Inc Macintosh platforms than any other firm during 1991, is thought to be readying Apple A/UX 3.0 and Microsoft Corp Windows versions of its ArchiCAD software for release in around six months time.
1993	Unacknowledged, it's been that way for several years, as we have regularly tried to point out here as others wrongly gave the crown to Digital Equipment Corp, but both the Wall Street Journal and Datamation magazine have at last come round to agreeing that Fujitsu Ltd is the world's second-largest company — with NEC Corp and Hewlett-Packard Co both now challenging DEC for the third place.
1993	Kubota Pacific Inc, Santa Clara, California, has teamed with Codar Technology Inc, Longmont, Colorado, to develop a ruggedised, high-performance, three-dimensional graphics system based upon DEC's Alpha RISC.
1993	Taiwan's and Communications Research Laboratories is reportedly actively pursuing an Alpha licence.
1993	Japan's quixotic Fifth Generation Systems project is being replaced this fall by a $800m Real World Computing project that will explore massively parallel processing, optical and neural computing and soft logic in an attempt to create a concept or architecture that distributes data as it is in the brain.
1993	Next Inc's NextStep 80486 environment failed to make its target beta date the end of last month as well as the June ship date for NextStep 3.0 on its own hardware, now due next month.
1993	IBM will indeed also incorporate the Portable Common Tools Environment from the European Manufacturers Association.
1993	It is the second largest Taiwanese semiconductor designer and manufacturer and a major supplier of the Taiwan personal industry and was chosen because of its ability to offer an entree to the Chinese-speaking markets in Hong Kong, China, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan.
1993	So what are Com Tech and MUA doing, jeopardising their relations with SCO in order to market a competitive type of Unix for the Intel-based personal ?
1993	Mitsui has launched a major campaign to attract Sun 3, Sun-386i and older Sparcstation users to upgrade to the Sparcstation 10 machines due soon, backed by what Mitsui terms an ‘aggressive’ pricing policy which has a ‘no penalty’upgrade path to the latest Sun Microsystems machines.
1993	Product revenues declined because of continuing weak economic conditions, highly competitive pricing and the negative impact of foreign exchange rate movements, although the company continued to ship more systems than a year ago — but at a lower average price per system.
1993	Sony Corp was next with a share of 11.8%, down 5.5 points, although in units, its sales increased — Sony attributes its decline to lower sales of systems based around its News workstation as the central .
1993	Apricot Ltd had been planning to announce ‘the world's first’ P5 machine in September.
1993	Spurred by the competitive market, Intel is thought to be pitching the first P5 boxes at $6,000: the company has reportedly priced the P5 at around $700 in 1,000 quantities versus the 80486DX which goes for $536, according to Reseller News.
1993	ATX, the foundation of the secure X-terminals, is based on the Addamax CMW, currently under evaluation by the National Security Center and the Defense Intelligence Agency for B1 and CMW ratings.
1993	The once-great Systems News, which had to suffer the indignity in its declining months of being called Systems and Network Integration, gives up the ghost this week but not before it reports that IBM will turn up at AutoFacts in November with a new-fangled massively parallel machine that runs both AIX/ES and MVS and is based on a new (possibly hybrid) chip developed at the Thomas Watson Lab.
1993	With Comdex's gargantuan draw and the current state of the personal business, it's the only sensible thing to do.
1993	Silicon Graphics Inc says it's giving a lot more headroom to software these days and is looking hard at NT in the wake of the recent NT developers' conference; it also wants to get into the high-end Apple Inc Macintosh market and migrate those users over to ‘real machines’ that let them realise some of their hopes and dreams but it can't see itself going below the $5,000 mark.
1993	Sequent Systems Inc, reporting second quarter net profits of $3.0m against a loss last time of $19.8m, on sales up 44.1% at $72.2m, says that in the UK, sales were up 90% on the year-ago period, and rose 89% in the quarter, 87% in the half, across Europe as a whole.
1993	BSDI, an alleged spin-off of UC Berkeley's Sciences Research Group, author of the famous Berkeley code, is attempting to commercialise a 386 operating system called BSD/386 based on the university's Network Release 2.
1993	According to USL, the school effectively rejected a proposal for a full comparison of Berkeley versus USL code by unbiased third parties by demanding that the evaluation be limited only to USL-specified snapshots and by selecting as arbiters for its side members of the Systems Research Group whose credentials, USL claims, were already tainted.
1993	Du Pont has also concluded a deal with RasterOps Corp which sees the Santa Clara, California-based company handing all of its Sun Sbus products over to Du Pont in return for Du Pont's GL implementation, which RasterOps will productise for the Apple Inc Macintosh market.
1993	INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS' WIDGET DATABOOK FOR MOTIF
1993	Integrated Solutions Inc has published the Widget Data book, a collection of XT-based widgets and other objects that speed the development of graphical user interfaces.
1993	The Widget Databook, available now at $10, includes access to six public domain widgets provided in source code form, but additional widgets, provided in binary form, can be accessed by obtaining the required access code from the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Integrated Solutions at prices between $200 to $3,000.
1993	The launch of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG's new multiprocessor line has been delayed.
1993	However, work on the MIPS Systems Inc R-series RISC-based B20 line is going ahead somewhat quicker, with a launch expected by the start of 1993.
1993	PRIME TO CLOSE DOWN ITS MINICOMPUTER MANUFACTURING BUSINESS
1993	The effort by management of Prime Inc's core business has failed and the company has decided to close the business, once one of the most successful of the clutch of second-line US minicomputer manufacturers.
1993	Already over 400 people have been shed since the beginning of the year, and the Prime Inc that is going public on revised terms and will change its name to Computervision Corp, will end up with 5,900 people, and annual sales of some $1,200m, mainly computer-aided design software and maintenance.
1993	The unit that is being closed had sales of just $169m last year, down from about $1,200m at its peak, shortly before Prime completed a hostile takeover of the original Computervision company back in early 1988.
1993	Prime was brought down when to escape a hostile bid from MAI Systems Corp, it agreed to one of the last — and most doomed — leveraged buyouts in the industry by a group led by J H Whitney & Co, just before the boom fell on such transactions, which saddled Prime with a debt burden that at the time looked unsustainable — as so it has proved.
1993	Productivity Solutions Ltd of Wakefield, Yorkshire has both the Hewlett-Packard and the Sun Microsystems Inc versions of Liken under an agreement that it signed last week.
1993	This code is confusingly named 386BSD after the original 386BSD project kicked off in the university's Systems Research Group in 1989.
1993	It says it has distributed over 300 copies of the beta system to an assortment of users including hackers, old DOS buffs and big brand name makers.
1993	Following a decision earlier in the year to scale down its workstation business,(UX No 368) Solbourne Inc, Longmont, Colorado, has pulled the plug on its direct sales operations in Europe, claiming ‘lack of business.’
1993	ObjectStore is already on from Sun Microsystems, IBM, DEC and Hewlett-Packard under Unix and running Microsoft Corp Windows 3.
1993	An 80486 version of NeXTStep 3.0 will ship in the next six months when those oft-promised OEM deals with the likes of Dell Corp will be announced.
1993	Meanwhile Dennis Peck, the erstwhile president of Interactive Systems Corp and the man who presided over the sale of half of it to SunSoft Inc, has joined Sequent Systems Inc as senior vice president of marketing, a position that's been open for over a year.
1993	Former director at Groupe Bull UK, Fred Bullock, has been appointed general manager of Swindon, Wiltshire-based Kode Ltd, which sells Sanyo Icon and Dolphin Server Technology Triton Unix kit.
1993	Tandem Inc veteran Steven Wierenga has been appointed vice president of engineering of Auspex Systems Inc.
1993	Kaleida Labs Inc, the IBM Corp-Apple Inc multimedia joint venture, has now appointed its senior management team and opened new offices in Mountain View, California.
1993	Dan'l Lewin, vice-president, sales and marketing comes from Go Corp and was previously co-founder with Steve Jobs of NeXT Inc.
1993	The Federal Conference, which reckons the federal market is worth $29.4bn, is scheduled for December 8–10 at the Washington Convention Center in Washington, DC.
1993	Usenix is hosting the third annual Unix Security Symposium September 14–16 at the Sheraton Inner Harbor Hotel in Baltimore, Maryland along with the Emergency Response Team: Usenix is be holding its annual Winter 1993 Technical Conference at the San Diego Town & Country Hotel in California January 25–29.
1993	Other OEM customers for the communications servers include Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, NCR Corp, Sequent Systems Inc, Intergraph Corp and Unisys Corp.
1993	The Annex servers are the latest generation of the NS32000-based line that Xylogics bought from Encore Corp back in 1988 (UX No 211).
1993	Fujitsu Ltd is preparing to plunge into the massively parallel processing market with a machine that it claims delivers 300 GFLOPS peak using ‘only a few hundred processors’: on current plans, it will be the first major manufacturer to enter the market with its own machine rather than one bought in.
1993	Ask Systems Inc's Ingres Corp plans to enhance its relational database management system to manage multidimensional data by the end of next year.
1993	Wang UK Ltd has signed an OEM agreement with UK firm JSB Systems Ltd, Macclesfield, Cheshire, to distribute its MultiView Unix-to-Windows connectivity software in the UK, Middle East and English-speaking regions of Africa.
1993	The Mountain View, California-based Unicode Consortium has merged its multi-lingual encoding standard with the recently approved ISO 10646, developed by the International Standards Organisation: the idea is that all over the world should agree on which number stands for which character so they will be able to communicate other in any language.
1993	The explosive proliferation of industry bodies continues and the latest brings together ICL Plc, Bell Atlantic Business Systems Services Inc, Hewlett-Packard Co, Microsoft Corp and Sun Microsystems Corp, and the ill they aim to alleviate is the lack of international standards for service and support information in distributed computing environments.
1993	The idea is that the standards should lead to increased uptime for users, and are also intended to aid and network operating system companies and hardware vendors that implement the standards, as well as those that use system management applications.
1993	In an alliance that could well go a lot further, Data General Corp has signed with NeXT Inc to resell NeXT workstations with its AViiON servers, and the two companies will collaborate in development of client-server systems.
1993	The product is not shipping yet, but it seems highly likely that when it is ready to go, DG will also announce support for the NeXTStep 486 object-oriented operating environment on its Dasher personal .
1993	And given that NeXT plans to switch to the Motorola Inc 88000 RISC that is the basis of the AViiONs for the next generation of the NeXT System (UX No 379), the field seems set fair for a closer alliance.
1993	Sun Microsystems Corp has launched SunSolve, software which it says gives Sparcstation users on-line access to service information such as technical bulletins and problem/resolution databases.
1993	The product development venture, SunSolutions, a new moon circling Sun Technology Enterprises, last week debuted its first product, ShowMe, its conference software: based on Open Look, it says it can be deployed for on-line meetings and collaborating on compound documents in real-time over a TCP/IP net work.
1993	MOTOROLA GROUP LAUNCHES 88110-BASED RISC BOARD
1993	The Motorola 88110 RISC is not actually out yet, but the company's Group has had enough of third parties announcing new machines using its parent's chips long before it gets a crack at them, and the company is first out of the gate with a single-board using the forthcoming 50MHz 88110.
1993	The MVME197 VMEbus single board is aimed at OEM customers requiring Fibre Digital Data Interface, Ethernet, SCSI and graphics interfaces.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co announced last week that it has realigned its Systems Organisation to provide closer co-ordination among its units.
1993	The new Systems Technology Group will focus on developing technology for the Systems Organisation's products and will include the Systems Technology, Open Systems Software, and Information Networks Divisions, Telecom Networks Operation, Grenoble Networks, User Interface Technology, R&D/Strategic Alliances and Quality/Productivity.
1993	The system combines either LSX 5000 or LSX 3000 servers with any MS-DOS or OS/2 personal .
1993	VERSANT PUTS ITS OBJECT DATABASE ON NEXT SYSTEM
1993	With its object-oriented NeXTstep environment, the NeXT System from NeXT Inc is an obvious early port of call for object database vendors and Versant Object Technology Corp has announced plans to put its database on the NeXT line.
1993	JSB Systems Ltd, Macclesfield, Cheshire, is providing its MultiView Mascot AlphaWindows manager for the Alpha effort: the company hopes to support all Unix operating systems and DEC's VMS by the end of 1993.
1993	Oracle Corp, has started shipping the developer's release of Oracle Version 7 in the UK on Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NCR, Pyramid Technology, Sequent Systems and Sun Microsystems Unix implementations along with DEC VAX/VMS.
1993	Although Xcelerated Systems Inc may have beaten it to Hewlett-Packard Co's door (UX No 396), now that it has settled its difference with Apple Inc (UX No 393), Quorum Software Systems Inc is back in the running with its Latitude Mac-on-Unix solution.
1993	IBM Corp is reportedly getting set to trade in its graphics for stuff OEM'd from Kubota Pacific Inc: we're told to expect the announcement before the end of the year — at Super Computing ‘92 perhaps.
1993	According to US reports, Apple Inc is planning to allow Macintosh users to upgrade their systems to RISC when the PowerPC begins shipping next year, and is negotiating with third parties to make upgrade boards available with from 50 MIPS to 100 MIPS performance depending on which version of the chip is used: prices are expected to start at $2,000 to $3,000 for Mac II users — a mid-range series of Apple PowerPC systems are thought to be in the works for next year withy prices starting at around $5,000.
1993	The next Microprocessor Forum is set for October 13–15 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel near San Francisco Airport: the not-to-be-missed event promises to have the goods on the first IBM and Apple Systems Inc's PowerPC chip, previews on Intel Corp's P5, Motorola Inc's 68060 and Tsunami, and the first embracing discussion of Hobbit, ARM, the next-generation Intel SL and pocket electronics in general.
1993	Larry Tesler, head of Apple Inc's Newton line is keynoting.
1993	Hewlett-Packard Co last week launched the first interconnect board under its February agreement with IBM Corp under which the two committed to adapting fibre optic interconnection boards for linking to peripherals and to developed by IBM for the AS/400 and RS/6000 to meet the ANSI Fibre Channel standard.
1993	Associates is believed to be working along the same lines for the HP platform.
1993	Integrated Micro Products Ltd, of Consett, England has signed the CIC reseller and systems integration subsidiary of Chiyoda Joho Kiki to market its XMP921 68040-based fault-tolerant Unix in Japan.
1993	The American companies lined up to resell Univel's shrinkwrapped UnixWare include BDS, Costa Distributing, FoxTech, Gates/FA Distributing, GBC Technologies, InaCom, Ingram Micro, JWP Information Services, Merisel, MicroAge Centers, Microware Distributors, MultiMicro, PC Distributing, Tech Data, Vitek Systems Distribution and Vitronix.
1993	Encore Corp, Fort Lauderdale, Florida has joined the real-time Unix fray with the launch of its Distributed Real-Time Executive for development and control.
1993	AEG AG's Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Modular Systems Inc reports that X/Open Co Ltd has completed the certification of its Real/IX real-time Unix operating system, and claims that it is the first real-time Unix to be registered with X/Open under its test and verification programme for open systems.
1993	A survey of leading US businesses sponsored by Stratus Inc of Marlborough, Massachusetts, which has an interest in spreading alarm and despondency about these things, suggests that downtime cost the country at least $4,000m in lost productivity and revenue last year; and with 75% of respondents indicating that their businesses are becoming increasingly reliant on computing systems this figure looks set to grow.
1993	The sample comprised 450 information system executives from major corporations in the telecommunications, travel and transport, insurance, manufacturing, banking, securities, and retail industries who were questioned about the costs and other impacts of online system failures.
1993	The results showed that businesses lost $3,400m in annual revenue due to failure.
1993	It was found that customer dissatisfaction and lost productivity due to downtime were considered to have a greater impact than the quantifiable loss of revenue due to downtime.
1993	The findings indicated that, on average, systems crash nine times per year, per company, and that those systems stay down for an average of four hours.
1993	The new version, Japanese Framemaker 2.1X, is available on the Solbourne Corp Sparcsystems from Matsushita Systems Ltd, on Sony Corp NEWS workstations via Rikei Ltd, and on the Okistation 7300 through Oki Electric Industry Co Ltd.
1993	The company says it is also taking control of the Common Lisp interface manager for Apple Inc Macintosh and is to become an Apple value-added reseller for Macintosh Common Lisp.
1993	The powers that be over at Sun Microsystems Corp and SunSoft Inc are starting to collect complaints from cloners and resellers over the way SMCC salesmen are hustling volume accounts, not playing by the rules and nosing compatibles out of upgrade sites.
1993	There are many things now riding on IBM's AIX Unix implementation(s): the PowerOpen operating system for PowerPC platforms will be based upon AIX 4, some AIX technology will find its way into Pink — the object-oriented environment out of IBM/Apple Inc's Taligent joint venture — Pink stuff will find its way back into PowerOpen Unix and Apple is committed to AIX for its future Unix requirements.
1993	Personal clients can directly and transparently access the Unix file system and printing resources.
1993	NT's SMP implementation is not for existing iAPX-86 personal at all…
1993	X terminals sales, one of the liveliest sectors, are growing at 100% a year, according to X Business Group figures.
1993	According to Reseller News, the new generation machines will be highly parallel systems using hundreds rather than thousands of processors in massively parallel configurations.
1993	Meantime, sources in the UK say that IBM's highly-parallel system will come with 16 boards per rack and 32 engines per board, 10 MIPS per engine.
1993	MVS, believe it or not, will run out of ROM and the chips, contrary to the report in Reseller News, will be based on CMOS technology and sourced from Intel Corp.
1993	Wang will meantime focus on its big service business and developing selling software an will sell made by others, including IBM.
1993	Cray Research Inc, Convex Corp, DEC, Intel Corp, MasPar, NEC and Silicon Graphics Inc are evaluating it.
1993	With the first chips hot off the press, the company is targeting the workstation and personal markets, especially systems houses and telecommunication specialists.
1993	Assets from the purchase will be combined with Spea's US subsidiary, whose name will be changed to Visualisation Technologies Inc; it will market both the Video Seven and Spea graphics product lines for personal .
1993	Visualisation Technologies will use Video Seven's established distribution channel to sell the combined graphics product lines in North America with European distribution handled by Spea Software AG.
1993	Boulder, Colorado-based, Precision Visuals Inc has announced that version 4.0 of its graphics visual analysis data software, PV-Wave, will now support Convex Corp's line of supercomputing machines.
1993	Wavetracer Inc has added a HIPPI, High Performance Parallel Interface, for its Zephyr deskside massively parallel : this will enable users to address real-time, interactive visualisation of large scientific computing problems at the desktop.
1993	Reseller News says that the second generation SCSI, SCSI-2, will be added by the Austin, Texas team and that it will provide transfer rates of up to 10Mbps.
1993	Looking forward to the end of Brazil's protected market in October, Tandem has set up a wholly owned subsidiary there, its 21st worldwide.
1993	Industry guru Marc Schulman has left UBS Securities to set up his own consulting operation, The Technology Strategies Group, whose primary customers are expected to be industry managers from both the hardware and software side.
1993	Wags are saying HaL is bringing new meaning to the phase ‘computerless company.’
1993	Walnut Creek, California-based PeopleSoft Inc has put its PS/HRMS personnel management system onto Sequent Systems Inc's Symmetries running Oracle and says the PeopleSoft Financials client-server financial accounting applications announced in April, will move to Sequent later; the two will team to sell applications on Symmetry running Oracle.
1993	Walnut Creek, California-based PeopleSoft Inc has put its PS/HRMS personnel management system onto Sequent Systems Inc's Symmetries running Oracle and says the PeopleSoft Financials client-server financial accounting applications announced in April, will move to Sequent later; the two will team to sell applications on Symmetry running Oracle.
1993	Hungry OEMs — of the likes of Dell Corp, CompuAdd Corp, AST Research Inc, and Toshiba Corp — can expect first developers kits in October, Sunsoft claims.
1993	But Sunsoft is not alone in its problems: Next has had to delay the Intel version of its NextStep environment for pretty much the same reason.
1993	ASSOCIATES SIGNS DEAL WITH NOVELL FOR CA-UNICENTER
1993	Following its decision to move into the Unix arena, Islandia, New York-based, Associates Inc, has signed an agreement with Novell Inc to port CA-Unicenter, its systems management software, and its vast collection of mainframe applications to the NetWare network computing environment.
1993	Jamming the wires with announcements, Lotus has also committed itself to supply Lotus Notes for SCO's Open Desktop, in a move, it says, to break out of the personal market.
1993	At the downsizing Expo in San Franscico last week, Sequent Corp demonstrated a symmetric multi-processing version of Windows NT running on a 16 processor 50MHz Intel Corp-based 808486 Symmetry 2000 machine.
1993	Symmetric multi-processing firms — such as Corollary Inc, Sequent Corp, AST Research Inc, NCR Corp and Compaq Corp — who have signed up for Microsoft's NT technology do not deny that as it stands, SMP NT does need to be adapted and tweaked to run on their respective systems.
1993	It's the same with .
1993	If an architecture fails to take over the mainstream market in its first ten years, it's not likely ever to do so.
1993	Mirroring its effort on 88open, which standardised a binary interface for Motorola Inc's 88000 architecture, the group's initiating partners include Associated Experts bv, Amsterdam, Netherlands, Parsytec GmbH, Aachen, Germany, GMD Berlin, Germany, and the University of Munchen, Germany.
1993	Compaq Corp will continue its high-end server push this autumn when it unveils a new line of upgradable 80486-based multi-processing systems, PC Week reports.
1993	Mentor, on of Apollo Inc's biggest single customer (UX No 132) is to stop selling workstations altogether by 1993 and concentrate on its software, also speeding up the pace of ASIC library development.
1993	Both Sony and the Koei Group gave various reasons for the split, Sony that its mission of developing the desk-top publishing market on workstations had been accomplished, while the Koei Group indicated that Sony's NEWS was too narrow a system for the jointly developed software, which will now be converted for other workstations and personal , including Sun Microsystems Inc Sparcsystems and Apple Inc's Macintosh.
1993	The NEWS workstations running NetWare for NEWS will be offered as servers for personal .
1993	According to Computerwoche, the recent decision by supercomputer manufacturer, Eagan, Minnesota-based Cray Research Inc to start using Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Modular Systems Inc's real-time operating system, Real-IX, has been followed by a similar move from Groupe Bull SA.
1993	The Headland Technology unit, which manufactures personal building block chip sets and has been suffering badly of late, will be reabsorbed into the parent company.
1993	The device, based on an 8-bit Motorola microprocessor, will reportedly work on any .
1993	The Unix-to-IBM SNA connectivity house, Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Cleo Communications, has signed for San Francisco, California-based Firesign Co's remote login technology.
1993	Japan Corp says it will start marketing three R3000a-based X terminals on the first of September, and expects to sell 9,000 units in the first 12 months of sales: The top-of-the-line Global XC20 includes a 20-inch colour screen, the XC17 a 17-inch colour screen and the low-end XG a 17-inch gray-scale monitor.
1993	A high-end, on-line transaction processing version of Texas Instruments Inc's Information Enginering Facility CASE package (which comes from its JMA Information Engineering Ltd subsidiary), is to be developed on Sequent Systems Inc's Symmetry 2000 system.
1993	Convex Corp has sold two Convex C3400 supercomputers to Mercedes-Benz AG, Germany.
1993	The lead story concerned DEC's then-unnannounced MicroVax-2 workstation, then causing (it turns out rather unnecessarily ) sleepless nights for the likes of Sun Microsystems and Apollo .
1993	WHAT PERSONAL APRIL 1993
1993	Here at What Personal all the production work is done on Apple Macs, using Quark Xpress, while the writers stick to PCs.
1993	HOW WHAT PERSONAL CAN HELP YOU
1993	What Personal is divided into two sections, BUYER and USER.
1993	PC hardware is also put through the What Personal Power Tests which assess the performance of the processor, display and hard disk.
1993	What Personal is here to help you.
1993	The What Personal Seal of Approval is given to the best piece of hardware or software tested in each month's Bench Test.
1993	The PC Direct Marketers' Association (PCDMA) will be officially launched by the time you read this, and consists of Dan, Mesh, Viglen, Kamco, Evesham Micros, Hi-Grade, Centerprise International and the Granville Group, which owns Time and Colussus.
1993	The new regulatory body for the direct sales channel should cut down on the risks involved in buying a direct
1993	Dixons has bought the PC World chain of superstores after an £8.5 million takeover of Vision Technology Group.
1993	The has a 25MHz TI 486SLC processor, mono screen, full-size keyboard and trackball mouse.
1993	Canon has yet to confirm details on price (it should be around £2,000) and availability, but it has announced that the machine will only be sold through high street retailers and superstores.
1993	spods have problems with the English language.
1993	Real meaning: A large linked to several others.
1993	Networking:A group of experts-swapping business cards in the hope of future promotion.
1993	State governor Romer is setting up pre-programmed in kiosks throughout towns in the state to poll taxpayers on how think their money should be spent.
1993	The asks you a question via a sound card and gives you a choice of options on screen, and you respond by pressing the relevant button.
1993	Novell, Lotus and WordPerfect are working together to offer software to companies in an attempt to stem the flow of cash heading Microsoft's way.
1993	The scheme — the Software Integration Partners Program (SIPP)— aims to let manufacturers bundle software even more cheaply than Microsoft.
1993	ICL is a big company with a big ambition — to become one of the largest manufacturers in the world.
1993	•Associates announced new versions of Compete, its Windows spreadsheet, the UpToDate information manager and Super-Project project management software.
1993	Associates on
1993	Following on from last month, It seems that GeoWorks has been talking to Casio and Tandy about putting its graphical front-end on hand-held , slated to compete with the so-far non-existent Apple Newton.
1993	I also expect the companies selling them to finally give up and start calling them — which, of course, is what they are.
1993	That same machine is now my nephew's home .
1993	Rob Beattie Rob Beattie had the great vision and foresight to launch What Personal back in 1989.
1993	And, despite numerous subtle hints — like transferring the entire What Personal offices to another building without telling him — he still won't leave us alone.
1993	If you'd like to communicate with Rob, send your letters to the What Personal office — you'll find our new address at the front of the magazine.
1993	Because I'm writing this column on my Texas TravelMate notebook .
1993	In the February issue I warned you that I was going to bite the bullet and buy a real .
1993	So, here are my tips: if you're buying a notebook to use as you sole system, make sure that there's a docking station available for it and that either the machine or the docking station accepts a real keyboard.
1993	When I went to ADM (the dealer) to drop off my old , Gary, one of the guys there, waved a leaflet under my nose.
1993	My can now sound like a flushing toilet, call me ‘big boy’, break wind, burst into laughter, tell me what program I've entered, giggle like my two-year-old and more.
1993	Trouble is, my current has less in the way of sound reproduction capabilities than your average telephone, so I won't get to exploit all of WFSP's tricks until I take delivery of the Stonker with the Soundblaster.
1993	Like so many of us, he thought would make his job much easier, and — like so many of us — he found that it just wasn't that simple…
1993	This month Ken is feeling rather cramped, due to his temporary set-up.
1993	Anybody who wants to communicate with Ken should send their letters to the What Personal office — you'll find our new address at the front of the magazine.
1993	IF YOU FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE INDUSTRY, DON'T BOTTLE IT UP, LET EVERYONE KNOW!
1993	Instead, I bought a number of magazines which I read into the small hours each night.
1993	Armed with the knowledge gleaned from reading matter and known buffs I travelled far and wide.
1993	In a third shop I was moderately interested in one particular model until the assistant gave me a global price for a , printer and so on.
1993	Yet another dilemma was that a number of firms bundled software packages with their .
1993	Unfortunately, the right software was never sold with the right .
1993	This may not be the right criteria to apply when buying a , but what else is an illiterate to do?
1993	A desktop capable of running Windows and its associated software for less than £450.
1993	An easily upgradeable desktop that will still be on technology's front like in three years time.
1993	Altogether a very naff and jaundiced review which was misleading, unhelpful and totally unrepresentative of PagePlus and What Personal .
1993	WHAT PERSONAL
1993	The disk has been checked for viruses by the UK Virus Certification Centre, based at the University of Bradford.
1993	What Personal cannot take any responsibility for money sent to authors whose programs appear on the Mega Disk.
1993	DELL HAS COME UP TRUMPS AGAIN, THIS TIME WITH A NOTEBOOK THAT'S CHOC-A-BLOC WITH USEFUL FEATURES.
1993	The latest notebook from Dell, the 320SLi, is small, compact and light, weighing just 3.6lb.
1993	One of the most notable features of the 320SLi is it PCMCIA (Personal Memory Card International Association) slot.
1993	One of the most important features of any portable is battery life.
1993	It's always difficult to come to a conclusion about portable because people buy them for different reasons.
1993	Hands up those who want a spreadsheet, word processor and database on their .
1993	Such a TSR is necessary so that incoming faxes can be received while you're using your .
1993	WHAT PERSONAL FIVE STAR REVIEW
1993	If you order goods as a private individual from mail order advertisements in this magazine and pay by post in advance of delivery, What Personal will consider you for compensation if the advertiser should become subject to bankruptcy or go into liquidation.
1993	You write to the publisher of What Personal , summarizing the situation not later than three months from the official on sale date of the publication (please retain proof of payment).
1993	There were 850 complaints about and software advertising in 1992, so it pays to be able to read between the lines of an advert.
1993	Once you're ready to place your order, use the What Personal Order Form on the tear-out card.
1993	The order form will help us to trace your purchase and link it on to an ad in What Personal .
1993	There's a lot of metal in this desktop beast, which has little in common with the run-of-the-mill OEM machines that pass through the What Personal office.
1993	Interestingly, this didn't translate into a great database benchmark in the What Personal Power Tests, although it still returned an overall score of around 14,500.
1993	Connected to a 200Mb WD Caviar 2200 drive, this potent combo made a mockery of CoreTest and produced the highest What Personal Power benchmark on record, over 25,000.
1993	Basically, you just plug in the board — a long, 16-bit card with a LAN cable connector on the end that pokes out from the back of your — and run the SoftSet set-up program.
1993	For occasional, easy access to a network you need some kind of LAN adaptor that just plugs into your .
1993	No problem: all have a few unoccupied sockets on the back panel, and at least one of these sockets — the parallel port — can move data fast enough to match the performance of the average LAN.
1993	The traditional unit is a box that sits between the mains and the AC-in socket on your .
1993	That current can be used by circuits without any further treatment.
1993	External UPSs, on the other hand, have to convert their battery-generated DC into AC before feeding it to the , which then has to convert the AC back into DC before it can be used.
1993	Battery back-up units tend to be on the big side, but Emerson Power also makes an internal version which comes with autosaving.
1993	IN THE THIRD PART OF OUR MONTHLY GUIDE TO STAYING SANE WHILE BUYING A ,ANDREW JOHNSON EXPLAINS HOW TO ENSURE A GOOD LEVEL OF AFTER SALES SUPPORT AND WHAT MAINTENANCE OPTIONS YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.
1993	Over the past two months I've dealt with what you need to look out for when buying a and how to tell if the machine you intend to buy is well built.
1993	This month I'm tackling where to buy a and the questions you need to ask in order to guarantee a good level of after sales support.
1993	In short, I'll be looking at how you can best protect yourself in the event of your going wrong.
1993	Anyone opening a magazine will find themselves confronted with a bewildering array of advertisements, all of them promising the greatest deals known to mankind.
1993	For the ordinary user there are two main channels to buy a through — either direct or from a dealer.
1993	There are plenty of dealers who can offer you a for less than the price of a Dell, Elonex or a Dan; but will the support be as good?
1993	Is it worth insuring your or taking out a separate contract with a third-party maintenance company?
1993	If you work for a large company, with plenty of in-house techies to repair a if it goes wrong, or you are competent — and confident — enough to fix it yourself, then you could be justified in buying cheap and taking a risk.
1993	But if you're an individual or small business buyer, then you'll probably be better off taking the following steps to make sure purchasing your is a painless as possible.
1993	No matter what happens, under the Sale of Goods Act 1979, suppliers have to meet the following conditions, otherwise they're legally obliged to sort out the problem for you.
1993	The must be of merchantable quality.
1993	The must be fit for the purpose you specify.
1993	Fix a definite date for the delivery of your , and make sure the supplier agrees to it.
1993	You must read the warranty carefully before you buy a .
1993	Before you buy a , have a look at what sort of maintenance the company is offering.
1993	And be careful about smaller companies which promise to get an engineer to your by the next day of something goes wrong.
1993	Ask friends and business colleagues about they've bought.
1993	Heron Granges, a specialist insurance company, also guarantees response times within eight hours, thanks to agreements with no fewer than three maintenance companies.
1993	This month's selection of the latest hardware and software includes more screen-saving madness; a desktop publishing program with a difference; British Rail's answer to timetable misery; a fax modem that isn't a fax modem; and a security package to keep the contents of your portable safe.
1993	PORTABLE ON
1993	If you store incredibly important and confidential data on a portable or laptop , you'll want a heavy-duty security system — especially if you're prone to leaving your car boot open with the machine inside.
1993	This file transfer program lets you make remote connections via a modem and access drives on a remote as it they were on your own machine.
1993	The MainLan cards in the What Personal system had both types of Ethernet sockets, but came with thin Ethernet  cables, so that's what we used.
1993	In the old What Personal office, prior to the move, things were a little, er…informal, and I was worried about the cable taking a pounding.
1993	During fitting out, provision was made for the whole floor (which includes What Personal 's sister titles — PC User and Which ?) to be properly cabled up, ready to be networked.
1993	Q: As an avid reader of What Personal , I'm writing in desperation regarding a serious problem which you or one of your readers may be able to help me with.
1993	My is a modest Dolan XT PC with twin 1.44Mb floppy drives and two 105.
1993	A program (issue 44) is a file containing a series of instructions for the which cause it to do a particular job (such as behave like a word processor or a flight simulator).
1993	My is a brand new Dan Technology 386/40, with 4Mb of RAM and a 100Mb hard disk with cache controller.
1993	WHAT PERSONAL READERS HOT TIP
1993	The What Personal postbag has been stuffed to the brim with letters of praise, following the appearance of the freebie screen wipes on the cover of our February issue.
1992	He had settled in Cape Town, where he was in the business.
1992	By detailing the position of each joint and other critical points on the body with a cursor, an exact scientific model of each action is produced as a stick figure by the .
1992	‘I think we work as a team pretty well,’ put in the Programmer.
1992	‘What happened to him then?’ asked the Programmer.
1992	‘Remarkable!’ the Programmer heard himself say.
1991	I think it's fair to say that with this new erm the box office that we've got a lot of information can be stored on that and in future we'll be using a much more erm sophisticated in a scientific way for instance if you came here and book that seat that your sitting in tonight we would know on that what type of show that your discouraging coming to erm we can say to you we can send you out a leaflet saying the kind of er things that you'd like to see are on at the playhouse on such and such a date and we could even say to you would you like the seat that you normally sit in.
0000	The  thing is that I  I can do  revamp it on .
0000	What, what you can do is you can then get basically you get the to type that out  type that out.
1993	JOURNEY Planner, British Rail's timetable condensed in disk form, is proving a success.
1993	The disk, designed to operate on IBM compatible , costs £19.99 plus £1.40 post and packing.
1993	Traders count cost of fault
1993	The centre was not able to open its doors until 3pm on Saturday because its failed.
1993	The system operates alarms, doors and smoke detectors and the fault was discovered on Saturday morning.
1993	The pictures can be down-loaded by the school to in its feeder primary schools.
1993	Copyright legislation includes books (both traditional and one-off artworks), calligraphy, cartoons, ceramics, collage, works, carious crafts, drawings and designs, engravings, glass, design, paintings, photographs, prints, sculpture, and textiles.
1990	Data are made available in the form of tapes, discs, listings and geochemical atlases as well as on an interactive system — GISA (Geochemical Interactive Systems Analysis)— which provides a very flexible and economical method of accessing and interrogating the database of 70 000 samples.
1990	A generated image of the East Midlands (Plate 1), from Plant and Jones (1989), combines deep geological, geophysical and seismic information.
1993	The cost of adapting their systems to handle new VAT requirements has proved to be an exceedingly expensive undertaking for the UK book business.
1993	The report estimated that the cost to business of adapting information and systems, and providing more detailed trade statistics, will be nearly £50m.
1993	Alan Smith, commercial director of Vista Systems, said: ‘The new VAT legislation has had a profound effect on systems used by publishers.
1993	We have been working closely with over 20 publishers on a number of major projects to ensure that systems are functional from 1st January, and able to collect the required information, such as a customer's VAT number and a two character country code.’
1993	‘OUP has spent considerably more than £100,000 adapting its system to cope with the new requirements.
1993	Breaking right away from both the Discworld and the Truckers lot with a game-based fantasy designed basically for children.
1993	This is her second book, slimmer but by no means slighter; complex stuff that she turns into a fun thriller.
1993	The maximum likelihood method was used to fit the models by the BMDP3V program.
1993	After a run in period of three months taking placebo given in a single blind fashion the patients were randomised into two groups by blocks of four using a generated random number list.
1993	Non-medical staff were asked about their involvement in the decision to apply for fundholding  status; perceived costs and benefits; and the impact of fundholding on work, use of , and patients.
1993	This assisted process of summarising and coding made a large amount of semi-structured material amenable to qualitative analysis.
1993	Information from the structured questionnaire was entered on to spreadsheets.
1993	Five of the nine practices had been collecting the types of data required by the regional health authority for several years, and all of the practices had systems in operation before the preparation period.
1993	The main benefit for general practitioners was improved practice management and systems (10 mentions); for non-medical staff it was swifter referrals (11 mentions).
1993	One teacher has severe MS, the sports psychology instructor is a centre user, and several sub-groups, including the women and disability forum, are run entirely by disabled people.
1988	It would also be surprising if the problems for which we have developed such services, be they, in our case, radio isotope testing, or information retrieval software, or systems for stock or other control, were not equally recognized by competitors and people in other fields of business.
1992	Large groups of hotels which are linked by usually operate their own central reservation system.
1992	Information on the availability of accommodation within the chain of hotels is fed into the and by telephoning the central reservation number the customer can be directed to the location and type of hotel which is able to meet their requirements.
1992	The information is fed into a so that when an inquiry is made to the centralised reservation service number the customer can be directed to the hotels with the available type of accommodation in the area they require.
1992	Many hotels now have a credit card microphone machine, which is linked to a central serving the five major credit card companies, i.e. Visa, American Express, Diners Club, Carte Blanche, Mastercard (see Chapter 5).
1992	The old key card code is invalidated on the console and only the new key card code will operate and open the room door.
1992	Modern microprocessors and technology have made such rapid advances that telecommunications and internal communications systems are now in compact units without plugs, switches, or buttons: just small keyboards with touch-sensitive depressions, some with small visual display units (VDUs) which can show at a glance the status of all calls being handled and prompt the operator through every procedure so that training can be reduced to a minimum.
1992	A well-known Minister of Technology defined information technology (IT) as the use of , microelectronics and telecommunications designed to help us produce, store, obtain and send information in the form of pictures, words or numbers more reliably, quickly and economically.
1992	There are many large and reputable organisations in the servicing industry producing:
1992	This means the physical components of , including the minicomputers, microcomputers and integrated systems and attachments to the .
1992	This means programs, including the specially designed programs on various types of disc, e.g. hard discs, floppy discs which are used in conjunction with the hardware.
1992	Room rates are stored in the 's memory and when the cashier enters the room rate code and presses the room rate look-up key; the terminal locates the rate in its memory, prints it on the folio and updates the totals.
1992	Package rates — when special rates are offered to travel agents or tour operators, the can distribute the charges to their respective departments.
1992	Hoskyns systems (Fig. 5.24)
1992	The Hoskyns Group have developed a range of specially tailored to the hotel industry.
1992	The system allows information to be ‘filed’ on floppy discs so that stored information can be called up at any time on the 's visual display unit.
1992	All calculations can be carried out by the , e.g. discounts, VAT, etc.
1992	Hotels with programmed to produce forecast printouts of future room and guest occupancy have an advantage, but there is no guarantee that there will not be a power or failure, and of course not all hotels have .
0000	Unlike a the brain does more than receive information.
1993	European labs begin parallel processing project
1993	Funds of ECU15 million (US$; 21.8 million) will be used to provide hardware and develop software for a technology that competes with standard vector .
1993	The will be used to develop software to analyse vast amounts of particle physics and meteorological data, which are currently analysed by Cray vector supercomputers.
1993	Parallel processing is capable of higher overall performance compared to vector , particularly important for specialist scientific, high-input high-output data analysis such as that generated at CERN.
1993	‘We are not a typical vector user’, says , project manager at CERN, ‘because our work is as much intensive as data intensive’.
1993	Massively parallel have the added advantage, for all users, of being much cheaper to build and to run than vectors.
1993	The EC hopes that the project, which began last month, will increase user confidence in the potential of the European massively parallel and will create a report on high-performance computing in Europe, compiled by CERN director  for the EC, concludes that Europe can compete effectively with US companies, traditionally the leaders in the supercomputing field, provided that the support is given to overcome the perennial problem of turning basic research results into competitive products.
1993	Last month NEC signed an agreement with the Swiss scientific computing centre (CSCS) to develop applications for massively parallel in a new, NEC-funded high performance computing software development centre on the CSCS site.
1993	, the former NIH official who set up the $70 million Institute for Genomic Research in Maryland specifically to pursue the project, told a Nature Genetics conference in Washington last week that he hopes to have ‘a nearly complete description of the human genome, in the freezer and on , within twelve to eighteen months’.
1993	Entertainment and the arts are beginning the transition, not only with digital storage and transmission media (compact disks, high-definition television), but also with the creation of purely computational art, ranging from music to the popular ‘morphing’ of film images.
1993	The intersection of cyberspace with science, variously called computational science, simulation science or (as these authors term it) supercomputing, is a world where physical laws are known or posited, as in theoretical science, but where complex physical systems can be seen (within the ) evolving in their own only partially controlled manner, very much as in an experimental or observational science.
1993	Computational science requires, and uses, the most advanced computational techniques of colour graphics, visualization and animation.
1993	The rest of the book surveys the different scientific disciplines and highlights specific projects, mostly work done in the united States at one or another of the national centres sponsored by the National Science Foundation.
1993	Notwithstanding, it is an ideal volume for a bright 12–14-year-old, especially one who is (or shows signs of being) addicted to .
1993	Scientists and science educators might do well to worry about the attractiveness of and the sense of power they unlock for brilliant young people today.
1993	We in the ‘traditional’ sciences are perhaps losing too many of the best young minds to interests and careers in science and other information technologies.
1993	and  's book could (one might say, should) be similarly influential to the present generation of youthful enthusiasts.
1987	Alterations to the design specifications of the New OED system may be needed during development in order to solve design or implementation problems.
1987	This document describes the Change Management Procedures to be adopted for the New OED Project.
1987	It should be noted that an agreed change will not necessarily result in an alteration to programs.
1987	This section gives an overview of the Change Management Procedures for the New OED Project.
1987	A design change proposed by a member of the group during system development will be referred to the Development Manager.
1987	Changes proposed by a user will be referred to the New OED Group Manager for initial approval.
1987	In some cases the Development Manager and the New OED Group Manager will be the same person.
1987	A Change Review Meeting will be held periodically between the New OED Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	The Change Coordinator will prepare a fortnightly Change Report for the New OED Group Manager.
1987	send the completed form(s), together with the supporting documentation, to the Change Coordinator in the New OED Group.
1987	Changes Originating from a Member of the Group
1987	In the case of changes proposed by a member of the Group, the procedures to be followed vary according to the stage of development at which the change is identified.
1987	He will assess the effect of the proposed change on that sub-system, the interfaces with other sub-systems, and the information held in files on the .
1987	The completed Change Request Form should be sent, together with any supporting documentation, to the Change Coordinator in the New OED Group.
1987	A Change Review Meeting will be held periodically between the New OED Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	send the agenda, together with copies of the relevant Change Request Forms and Change Review Forms to the New OED Project Director and the New OED Group Manager
1987	The Change Coordinator should prepare a Change Report for the New OED Group Manager every two weeks.
1987	referral of changes proposed during the development of a sub-system by a member of the Group.
1987	allocating the change to a member of the Group, scheduling the work, and monitoring the progress of approved changes.
1987	Changes proposed by a member of the Group during the development of a sub-system will be referred to the Development Manager.
1987	He will assess the effect of the proposed change on that sub-system, the interfaces with other sub-systems and information held in files on the , and the amount of work involved in undertaking the change.
1987	examine the implications of the proposed change and consider any alternatives, such as changes to the information held on the or changes to manual procedures
1987	New OED Group Manager
1987	A Change Review meeting should be held periodically between the New OED Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	The New OED Group Manager should:
1987	A Change Review meeting should be held periodically between the New OED Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	discuss the change requests with the New OED Group Manager in the order given on the agenda
1987	reach agreement with the New OED Group Manager on the outcome of the change request, ie. accept the proposed change, reject the proposed change, or defer a decision until a specified date.
1987	This is not applicable to the Group
1987	The completed form should be sent by the person requesting the change to the Change Coordinator in the New OED Group, who will add a reference number to it.
1987	(not applicable for Group)
1987	SEND TO CHANGE COORDINATOR, NEW OED GROUP
1987	Signed: New OED Group Manager
1987	The Change Report will be prepared every two weeks by the Change Coordinator and submitted to the New OED Group Manager.
0000	This manual describes the use of the forms NEWOED1–NEWOED7 and the way in which they are to be completed by the lexicographers in order to request services from either or both of the New OED Group or (indirectly) the Services Department.
0000	It also describes the way the New OED Group and the Services Department must complete their sections of the forms to inform the lexicographers that the tasks set by the issuing of these forms have been completed.
0000	these will require the Services Department to follow a set of procedures
0000	these forms will require the services of the New OED Group only.
0000	The priority numbering system will be strictly adhered to unless a specific request is made by the Project Director to the New OED Group or his appointed deputy.
0000	New OED Group
0000	These sections are labelled as Lexicographers ,New OED Group or Services Department .
0000	All completed forms should be photocopied before being issued to the New OED Group for actioning.
0000	When the processing requested by a form has been completed the request form will be returned to the lexicographers with the Completion Confirmed on Date filled in by the New OED Group.
0000	If it is noticed that a form has not been acted upon after the specified number of working days the New OED Group should be informed.
0000	New OED Group
0000	If the form is one to be actioned by the Services Department:
0000	when the Services Department returns the form as completed, the form should be checked.
0000	a photo-copy of the form will be returned by the New OED group, and the completed form returned to the lexicographers.
0000	If the form is one to be actioned by the New OED Group:
0000	a photo-copy of the form will be returned by the New OED group, and the completed form returned to the lexicographers.
0000	Services Department
0000	The form should be returned to the New OED Group.
0000	If the procedure has failed to run to a successful completion, Services will enter this fact in the COMMENTS section of the form.
0000	If the job requires re-running a new form will be submitted by the New OED group.
0000	The services of both the New OED Group and the Services Department are required.
0000	The original form is then issued to the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	The form should then be passed to the Services Department.
0000	Services Department
0000	The rest of the Services Department's section of the form should be completed as specified in Appendix 1.
0000	The rest of the Services Department's section of the form should be completed as specified in Appendix 2.
0000	The rest of the Services Department's section of the form should be completed as specified in Appendix 3.
0000	Upon completion of any of the above procedures the form should be returned to the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	If procedures PROC1 or PROC3 have been actioned by the form the New OED Group will produce a report showing the ranges of entries for each Lexicographer Group.
0000	The services of both the New OED Group and the Services Department are required.
0000	The procedure PROC4 will be completed by the Services Department.
0000	New OED Group
0000	The form should then be passed on to the Services Department.
0000	Services
0000	Upon completion of the procedure the form should be logged and returned to the New OED Group.
0000	This form will require only the services of the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	Refer to the New OED Group procedures manual.
0000	This form will require only the services of the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	Refer to the New OED Group procedures manual.
0000	This form will require only the services of the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	Refer to New OED Group procedures manual.
0000	The form will require only the services of the New OED Group.
0000	New OED Group
0000	Refer to New OED Group procedures manual.
0000	It is assumed that on completion of a form some amount of discussion between the lexicographers and the New OED Group will be required to enable the request to be actioned.
0000	During testing or use of the New OED System, errors may be encountered.
0000	This standards document describes the Problem Management Procedures for the New OED Project.
0000	System testing of each sub-system will be carried out under the control of a member of the Group who is designated as the Test Manager for the sub-system.
0000	Correction of errors caused by a sub-system other than the one being tested will be controlled by the Group Manager.
0000	Correction of errors identified by users will be controlled by the Group Manager.
0000	The Group will enter each problem encountered during System Testing directly into the system using the PCF facility.
0000	Errors found by users or members of the Group during use of the system will be recorded on a Problem Report Form and passed to the Problem Administrator who will enter the problem report into the system.
0000	The Problem Administrator (a member of the Group) will monitor the progress of each problem to ensure that action is being taken.
0000	This section describes the New OED System Problem Management Procedures in detail.
0000	In the case of problems encountered during use of the system by a user or a member of the Group the following procedures applies.
0000	submit the completed form, together with the supporting documentation, to the Problem Administrator, New OED Group.
0000	Problems will not be recorded directly by other members of the Group.
0000	use the IPF Problem Control Facility to record a problem report in the system.
0000	assign the problem report to the Group Manager
0000	send the supporting documentation to the Group Manager.
0000	The Group Manager will ensure that timely action is taken to resolve the problem.
0000	use the IPF Problem Control Facility to record a problem report in the system.
0000	assign the problem report to the person within the Group who will resolve the problem, i.e. to the Problem Solver
0000	He should refer the following to the Group Manager:
0000	Group Manager
0000	The problem management procedures which involve the Group Manager are described below.
0000	Problems will be referred to the Group Manager as follows:
0000	the Problem Administrator will refer all problems which originate from a user or a member of the Group (other than a) above).
0000	For each of these problems a problem report will be entered into the system and assigned to the Group Manager.
0000	Any supporting documentation and Problem Report Forms will be sent to the Group Manager.
0000	The Group Manager should:
0000	for other problems, assign the computer-based problem report to the person within the Group who will resolve the problem, i.e. to the Problem Solver.
0000	The Group Manager should regularly check the progress that is being made towards resolving the problems that are under his control.
0000	When the Problem Solver reports to him that a problem has been resolved the Group Manager should give his agreement to the closure of the problem report.
0000	Each week the Group Manager should prepare a Weekly Problem Report.
0000	use the IPF Problem Control Facility to record a problem report in the system.
0000	enter the reference number on to the Problem Report Form which the system will generate, in order to identify the problem report uniquely
0000	assign the problem report to the Group Manager
0000	send the Problem Report Form and any supporting documentation to the Group Manager.
0000	The Group Manager will ensure that action is taken to resolve the problem.
0000	The Problem Administrator should access all outstanding based problem reports regularly, i.e. those reports that have not been closed, to ensure that action is being taken to resolve the problem and to ensure that appropriate notes have been added to the descriptions of the problem reports to reflect the current status of the problem and the action being taken.
0000	Any queries or concerns should be referred to the Group Manager.
0000	Each reported problem will be passed by a Test Manager or the Group Manager to a member of the Group for resolution.
0000	Each member of the Group should access their ‘reader file’ regularly to determine if a problem has been assigned.
0000	When the problem has been resolved, the Problem Solver should obtain the agreement of the Test Manager or the Group Manager, depending on who originally assigned the problem to him, to close the problem report.
0000	This form will be completed by users and members of the Group of the New OED System to report problems with the system.
0000	Detailed Description: a detailed description of the problem, including the steps that led to the problem, any relevant messages or codes displayed or printed by the system, and any other useful data.
0000	The form should be passed to the Problem Administrator who will enter a problem report into the system using the IPF Problem Control Facility.
0000	SEND TO PROBLEM ADMINISTRATOR, NEW OED GROUP
0000	This section describes the information which should be entered to set up a based problem report using the IPF Problem Control Facility.
0000	The generated problem report includes a status field.
0000	This report will be produced weekly under the control of the Group Manager for use in regular review meetings with the New OED Project Director.
0000	The printed report should be annotated to indicate those problems which are outstanding for more than five days or which led to a Change Request.
0000	It should be sent to the New OED Group Manager.
0000	This section briefly describes the IPF Problem Control Facility with regard to its use in the New OED Project Problem Management Procedures.
0000	The procedure will be run by a Services Operator.
0000	You must have received a NEWOED1 form completed by the lexicographers and the New OED Group Manager before starting.
0000	If both units are in use or unavailable inform the New OED Group representative who will issue further instructions.
0000	Should any other message appear on the screen inform the New OED Group immediately.
0000	The completed NEWOED1 form should be returned to the New OED Group representative making sure a copy is retained.
0000	If any message other than those already listed appears whilst running the procedure the New OED Group Manager, or his appointed deputy, should be informed.
0000	When a problem arises the New OED Group Manager should be immediately informed.
0000	The New OED Group will then inform you as to what further action if any you are to take.
0000	The procedure will be run by a Services Operator.
0000	You must have received a NEWOED1 form completed by the Lexicographers and the New OED Group Manager before proceeding .
0000	Failure to get this message, or if another message appears, the New OED Group Manager should be informed.
0000	then speak immediately to the New OED group Manager.
0000	The New OED Group should be informed immediately upon completion by returning the NEWOED1 form.
0000	If any message other than mentioned above appear whilst running the procedure the New OED Group Manager, or his appointed deputy, should be informed.
0000	When a problem arises the New OED Group Manager should be immediately informed.
0000	The New OED Group will then inform you as to what further action if any you are to take.
0000	The procedure will be run by a Services Operator.
0000	You must have received a NEWOED1 form completed by the Group Manager before starting.
0000	If both units are in use or unavailable inform the New OED Group representative who will issue further instructions.
0000	Should any other message appear on the screen inform the New OED Group immediately.
0000	then speak immediately to the New OED Group Manager.
0000	The New OED Group should be informed immediately upon completion by returning the NEWOED1 form.
0000	If any message other than those already listed appears while running the procedure the New OED Group Manager, or his appointed deputy, should be informed.
0000	When a problem arises the New OED Group Manager should be immediately informed.
0000	The New OED Group will then inform you as to what further action if any you are to take.
0000	The procedure will be run by a Services Operator.
0000	You must have received a NEWOED2 form completed by the lexicographers and the New OED Group Manager before starting.
0000	If both units are in use or unavailable inform the New OED Group representative who will issue further instructions.
0000	Should any other message appear on the screen inform the New OED Group immediately.
0000	The completed NEWOED2 form should be returned to the New OED Group representative making sure a copy is retained.
0000	If any message other than those already listed appears while running the procedure the Group Manager, or his appointed deputy, should be informed.
0000	When a problem arises the New OED Group Manager should be immediately informed.
0000	The New OED Group will then inform you as to what further action, if any, you are to take.
1987	The New Oxford English Dictionary Project requires a sophisticated and novel system to be built and commissioned in a short period of time.
1987	Certain elements of software must be written by the Group within the Project Team.
1987	The satisfactory performance of the resulting system is of crucial importance to the success of the project and is of great concern to the managements of OUP and IBM.
1987	The Outline Statement of User Requirements identifies the functions, method of operation, performance levels, control, and security which are required of the new system.
1987	These three documents provide sufficient information for the Group to prepare a system design, to calculate the cost to the Press of acquiring and running a system of this design, and to prepare an implementation programme for the system.
1987	the initial entry, integration, and editorial alteration of the text, in some cases with the assistance of special programs
1987	The purpose of this statement is to give sufficient information to the Group for it to provide an outline design for the New OED system.
1987	to provide assistance for the lexicography of the New OED
1987	Users must be fully isolated from any development activities undertaken by the Group.
1987	If any processes other than the production of such output are not designed as on-line operations, then the effect of this on the system and its environment, in particular its effect on the working method of project team members, must be clearly identified.
1987	Allowance must be made for any demands placed upon system resources by the Group.
1987	Operation
1987	It is likely that the present room will be used at least temporarily to house the central processing equipment.
1987	A new room will be constructed if the final configuration of central processing equipment requires it.
1987	This will be close to the present room.
1987	The maximum distance from the room to any terminal on the Walton Street site is 300m.
0000	These files, its library, the expertise of its staff, and its access to special databases constitute the Department's unique resources.
0000	Research into origin, meaning, use, etc., of the word or sense via libraries or databases.
0000	Recently a new resource has been added: terminals giving access to three specialized databases (DIALOG, LEXIS/NEXIS, and the Oxford University Computing Service's literary archive).
0000	the ownership of any equipment or software to be used in the proposed system
0000	the ownership of any selling or marketing rights for services or software that result from the provision of the system for OUP.
0000	The Press first used methods to assist typesetting in 1970, beginning with An Index to the Indo Aryan Language produced from an IBM in London University and using the Photon Lumizip 901 typesetter of Computaprint Limited.
0000	A small Assisted Typesetting unit was established to prepare input for an ICL 1903 on paper tape.
0000	In 1974 a Raytheon-Cossor PTS-100 mini was purchased and programmed by the Press to provide a four screen editing system using magnetic cassettes as the storage and updating medium.
0000	The ICL Composition System on the ICL 1903 was used to provide hyphenation and justification facilities in a batch mode and the Press has written a number of programs to perform generalized page make-up as well as specialized indexing, chess validation, dictionary make-up, book cataloguing and other operations.
0000	The installation of a Lasercomp in 1979 enabled the Division to take on the filmsetting work of the Assisted Typesetting unit as well as expand the range of their own setting.
0000	The Department will be connected via a private telephone line to the processing units in the room which is some half a mile distant.
0000	OUP's choice of supplier will be based on several factors including the following aspects of systems and service offered:
0000	Prepare a schedule for a typical working day when the systems described in 5.2.5 are available to Oxford University Press.
0000	With what reliability will processing be achieved on the proposed configuration(s)?
0000	local hard copy attachment under main control?
1987	This System Description has been prepared to assist the staff who will control and use the system during the period in which the text of the New OED is edited in preparation for the publication of the integrated, paper edition.
1987	The system delivered is built to the design approved for Phase 1 of the New OED Project in July 1985.
1987	This document describes only those components and facilities required for the second stage of processing for Phase 1.
1987	The review of material may take place through a terminal, or by means of a proof print.
1987	Outline System Design for a System
1987	A Service Agreement for the New Oxford English Dictionary System
1987	A Facilities Management Agreement for the New Oxford English Dictionary System
1987	Operating Procedures for the New Oxford English Dictionary System.
1987	The completion of the system for Phase 1 of the New OED Project marks the end of a period of intensive and innovative software development.
1987	This has been a source of satisfaction to the Group, but has been due in part to the assistance we have received from many people.
1987	These contributions are too numerous to list, but at its peak the Group had fifteen members, with secondees from IBM (United Kingdom) Limited and the University of Waterloo, and contract staff from a variety of companies.
1987	Proofs are produced in bulk by the Group on request.
1987	Similarly, cross-references which were not satisfied or were found to be ambiguous during the earlier stage of processing may need to be corrected or updated.
1987	This part of the system will be managed by the Group during the early stages of interactive integration.
1987	Since structural information was only partially contained in the text captured by the keyboarding contractor, structural markup has been generated and inserted by the system in the first stage of processing.
1987	The authority attribute distinguishes lexicographers from other valid users e.g. the Group.
1987	Access to them will require the approval of a senior lexicographer and will be controlled by the Group.
1987	Group Equipment
1987	The 5371 and 3192 terminals are available for demonstration purposes, as is the 3812 page printer when not in use by the Group.
1987	Of the other equipment available to the Group normally five display terminals will be used for support and operations functions.
1987	The 4250 printer will be used under the Group's control to produce occasional high quality proofs or for other documents that cannot adequately be output on the other printers available.
1987	The central equipment is sited in the Oxford Centre.
1987	It is administered by the Services Department under a Facilities Management Agreement .
1987	Group
1987	It is anticipated that a Group of four people will be sufficient to support the New OED system during the Interactive Editing Phase from July 1987 to November 1988.
1987	The Group will comprise:
1987	the New OED Group Manager responsible to the Head of Development for the provision of services for the New OED Project Team, he controls the Group, and coordinates the processing and support functions.
1987	a System Supervisor responsible to the Group Manager.
1987	Liaises with Services to ensure operating procedures are carried out.
1987	two Analyst/Programmers responsible to the Group Manager for the support of the applications running on the system.
1987	Services Department
1987	Services will manage the central facilities.
1987	They will carry out the procedures initiated by the Lexicographer Group on instruction from the Group.
1987	The production of tapes for the composition contractor and the taking of security versions of current work will also be carried out by Services.
1987	The provision of all these services for the New OED Group is detailed in the Facilities Management Agreement .
1987	The Group will confine their activities to producing reports requested by lexicographers and to the production of low volumes of proofs when these are required.
1987	General reports of lexicographic activity or reports within a specific category (for example, the new entries created are a matter of particular interest) may be obtained by the Group on request by a senior lexicographer, by using ISQL.
1987	The processes will be managed by the Croup but will be initiated at lexicographer request.
1987	However, from a resource management viewpoint they are two procedures and when both are invoked b) must be queued behind a).
1987	One working day's notice will normally be required before any request is serviced or added to the Group task list.
1987	Should the lexicographers wish to proof ranges of dictionary text before approving it, a request may be made to the Group using an appropriate control document.
1987	This facility will be managed by the Group initially to control resource usage.
1987	The process will take about half an hour, will require two reels of tape and will be initiated by the Services Department operator at 08.00, whenever a transfer to the Working-Set has taken place on the previous night.
1987	Suspended lexicographers must apply to the Group Manager for reinstatement.
1987	However, should individual lexicographers habitually use excessive memory, it is possible for the Group to restrict the virtual memory they are allocated.
1987	Processes run by the Group will have lower priority than those run by lexicographers.
1987	A third printer, normally reserved for use by the Group, may be made available to lexicographers in the event of the breakdown of one or other of these units.
1987	Resources Directly Controlled by the Group
1987	The Group directly controls the virtual machine environments for the Working-Set, and for the Main Database whenever this is being used to generate cross-reference reports.
1987	The third 3812 printer and the 4250 printer are used by the Group.
1987	This will usually be a member of the New OED Group or the IBM Customer Engineering Service.
1987	A Problem Report Form should be completed and passed to the Group who will ensure that the problem is recorded and progressed in a timely fashion.
1987	In the case when the Group diagnose a fault with the system software or standard utilities, assistance will be sought from the appropriate IBM agency.
1987	The Group will be responsible for satisfactory resolution of the problem.
1987	There will also be five secondary-use terminals operated intermittently by the Group, for such tasks as system monitoring and control, and program fault repair.
1987	Tasks Requested by Lexicographers but Managed by the Group
1987	Some of the functions of the system can not be initiated directly by lexicographers.
1987	In general, these tasks will be initiated by the Group at the request of a lexicographer, and will be processed outside normal working hours.
1987	During working hours the primary interactive facilities will not be impaired by any computing controlled by the Group.
1987	A simple model of the New OED system in normal working hours consists of two types of software running on the 4341 .
1987	Increasing workload within the same length of working day: this would again produce poorer responses for lexicographers but in addition batch processes would be requested more frequently and this would require either that they run during normal working hours or that Services staff would need to work more unsocial hours.
1987	Increasing the length of the working day: this would require the Group and the Services Department to work more unsocial hours.
1987	a User Service Agreement exists between the New OED Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	a Facilities Management Agreement exists between the New OED Group and the Services Department for the provision of a operating service.
1987	During the whole period of interactive integration, service levels will be recorded on a regular basis by the Group.
1987	Reports summarising service levels achieved versus targets will be issued weekly and monthly by the New OED Group Manager.
1987	These will be called the Weekly/Monthly New OED Service Reports .
1987	The monthly report will be written in the form of a memo to the Director, Information Systems, with copies to the Head of Development and the New OED Project Director.
1987	It will serve as a discussion document for a monthly Lexicographer Service Meeting between the Group Manager and the New OED Project Director.
1987	The rest of this section gives detailed consideration to the aspects of controlling the system identified in the System Evaluation Criteria document.
1987	These reports summarise the demands made on the system over time, and indicate how well the system met those demands.
1987	Down times and system incidents will be logged by the facilities management operator in a diary kept in the Room.
1987	Each week, the operator will use this diary to produce a report of system down times, by day of the week, on a pre-printed form, which will be given to the New OED Group Manager.
1987	This report will be called the Weekly New OED Service Report .
1987	The New OED Group Manager will use these weekly reports to produce figures on average availability over the last three months for the monthly service report mentioned earlier.
1987	The results of the measurements will be summarised by the New OED Group Manager in the monthly service report.
1987	Batch processes, such as the production of tapes for the composition contractor, archiving, and back-up, will be run by the facilities management operator according to agreed procedures to instructions given by the New OED Group Manager.
1987	A summary will be included by the New OED Group Manager in the monthly service report.
1990	They were years ahead of their rivals in the use of political consultants, , direct mailing systems and polling techniques.
1992	‘THERE ‘e goes again!’ muttered the Old Stager, as the Programmer was caught in the slips for 32 in our last match of the season.
1992	‘Only the one,’ admitted the Unemployed Electrician, while the Captain modestly ignored the conversation and spread his hands to applaud the Programmer's efforts.
1992	The Programmer threw his bat down, in the reckless manner allowed only to one who knows he's done a good batting job and is respected by his fellows.
1992	If you're playing against the you'll play the first half kicking from left to right, changing ends at half time.
1992	The will automatically select a player for you to control, but if you're not happy you can change it by pressing the fire button and moving the joystick in the approximate direction of the player you would rather control.
1992	Also, if two players are standing very close to each other, the might give you the wrong one — repeat until you get it right
1992	(if it ISN'T in neutral, the will assume you're trying to change players.)
1992	You can allow the to control the goalie, or (if the goal is under threat), opt to gather in the ball, press fire with the joystick in neutral — anything else will be interpreted as an instruction to your highlighted player.
1992	1 or 2 v — One or two humans can play against the C64.
1992	Show Teams — A list of eight teams is displayed with their managers (ie or human).
1992	Select EDIT TEAM, and change (top left of screen) to your own name by placing the cursor over the first letter then typing it in on the keyboard.
1992	For flabby footy fans like PHIL KING, soccer is the only way to get any kicks.
1992	The teams are also too easy to beat
1992	Long-term challenge is lacking due to easy-to-beat sides, but two-player games are fun.
1992	Farcical overhead-view game featuring incredibly thick goalies with a strange resemblance to the Pope.
1992	Alternatively you can play a friendly, either against the or a pal.
1992	Arnie may not win many Oscars, but the big guy's action-packed movies sure make great games.
1992	I recall someone complaining about those little cartoon drawings of you lot, I would just like to say that I think they are very comical and nowadays virtually every magazine has them (except for crappy ones like Amstrad Action!).
1992	The sooner 16-bit and console owners realise cracking graphics don't make a game great, the better off they'll be.
1992	When you've mastered the various  strokes possible (including lobs and smashes), you can enter any of the four Grandslam tournaments (including Wimbledon), taking on players of varying ability.
1992	Like so many of its counterparts, it's viewed from overhead, the pitch scrolling to follow the action.
1992	Sight — is it just me, or does anyone else think these 3-D Freescape thingies just don't work on 8-bit ?
1992	If you're looking for a painless introduction to RPGs, check out Heroquest or Space Crusade instead.
1992	Over The Net 's extensive options enable you to play one or two players against the .
1992	In one-player mode, your team-made is controlled by the — you can play against another human-and-computer team.
1992	There's no fiddly control system here; you just press fire when the ball is near, and the chooses the most suitable move.
1992	Looping the loop and executing mid-flight victory rolls might be sensational on the coin-op, but without that gyroscopic cabinet thingie the effects are nowhere as impressive, and the thinness of the gameplay stands out like a Spectrum owner at a fair.
1992	Turrican II is possibly the greatest technical achievement ever on any .
1992	I've played Millenium Warriors umpteen times and have yet to beat the Captain Caveman lookalike when controlled by the .
1992	I've played a lot of these poker games in my time as a own, and none of them have been any cop (especially bad was Maria Whittaker's Christmas Box ).
1992	In all,Sly Spy is just about worth the four brass beer tokens asked for by your friendly shop.
1992	Ever wondered where programmers come from?
1992	Own a or console already?— why not call our fantastic game review line or our cheat and tips line — IT'S TOTALLY MEGA!!
1992	WIN A CRUCIAL AMIGA 500 PLUS FIVE TOP SELLING GAMES!
1992	Get ready for some finger-searing action as BUB & BOB blast their way onto your screen.
1991	Pacific layout and design workshop
1991	Fourteen publishers in Papua New Guinea (PNG) and the Solomon Islands plan to take part in a layout and design workshop to be held in Madang, PNG, 6–12 October.
1991	It will be led by Brian Martin of Electronic Studio, a training group from Australia.
1991	To offset the trends towards monopolies in the media WACC will continue to promote alternative communication technologies such as those used at the grassroots, for example, community radio and networks.
1991	New technology figured prominently as participants found ways of matching regional information and research needs with fast-paced advances in technology.
1991	Also without warning, the Etnias office was ransacked and valuable equipment was stolen.
1991	There will be a presentation on new publishing technologies focusing primarily on personal and software for word processing, editing, composition, page layout and design.
1991	technology boosts local publishing
1991	‘The advance of technology has stimulated indigenous publishing in the Pacific and enabled even small groups to publish their own materials,’ said Terry Hermano, WACC's Regional Coordinator for the Pacific, as she explained the current need in the region for training in the new technology.
1991	The original plan was to target the ‘secular press’ throughout the world via and telephone networks, using four languages.
1991	No date has been set for the launch of the agency, which will depend on the setting up of a continent-wide network.
1991	update German church
1991	Credo-Bit ‘92 was the first conference to be devoted to the application of to theology and the Church.
1991	Its new division, Claret Technologies, offers software development services as well as training programmes.
1991	The university has its own printing press, radio and TV studios with portable equipment and , some of which will be available to the conference.
1991	The university has its own printing press, radio and TV studios with portable equipment and , some of which will be available to the conference.
1992	It is no exaggeration to say that today in the EC it would be possible to write a detailed personal history of every man, woman and child from the information contained in a variety of files.
1992	A touring exhibition distracts from the site's desperate underfunding
1992	Twelve interactive terminals allow visitors to take an ‘electronic walk’ through Pompeii's forum, theatres, amphitheatre, villas and baths, seeing them from various perspectives.
1992	The programmes on the , also accessible to visitors to Pompeii itself in the small museum at Boscoreale, are the culmination of what is known as the Neapolis project.
1992	simulates travel knocks
1992	A programme designed to ensure perfect transportation conditions for works of art has been devised by an art restorer at the Laboratory of Analytical Restoration at the Smithsonian Institute, Washington.
1992	If this goes ahead, visitors to the Accademia will be able to consult a to find out which churches contain further works by the artists featured in the museum itself.
1992	It gives a view of the Earth based on satellite data and photographs, interactive and audio-visual systems.
1992	Since the database does not incorporate visual images, corresponding photographs are kept on file.
1992	London's Warburg Institute has just made available on its database of the Census of Antique Works of Art and Architecture known to the Renaissance.
1992	Apollo Belvedere and friends on now
1992	In 1982 the J. Paul Getty Trust came into the project to devise the necessary technology to create the database.
1992	It's a technique of scanning an image and enlarging it through a battery of airbrushes controlled by a .
1992	Topics covered in the papers will include the digitisation of the French National Library; the International Art and Antiques Loss Register; the art design applications of micro in primary schools; and the museum of the future.
1992	The Pompidou Centre's Musée National de l'art Moderne and its Centre de Création Industrielle are launching a new project under the title Revue virtuelle which will be devoted to the interraction of art and technology.
1992	The cutting edge of technology is being used by a number of artists worldwide to create new worlds or virtual reality (VR) in the new art jargon.
1992	He juxtaposes two or more negatives in a single frame or, again superimposing different shots, transfers the printed photograph to a large canvas backing using a able to read a positive image and reproduce it in polychrome.
1992	It includes works executed by Gerhard Faulhaber and Daniel Habegger with the minimum of materials, Ueli Etter's games, and British artist Brian Reffin Smith's ‘The Beast’ which links German history with childhood games.
1992	Unfortunately, London University's proposal that the Witt should become self-financing comes just as the Getty programme is ending its support of the Witt Index because it has changed its policy from building up a vast database of its own to producing systems for accessing other databases.
1992	Most of the collection's archives, photographs and research material have been returned but its and software were lost.
1992	More precisely, this will be a museum with no contents at all: the first museum of costume entirely on .
1992	The information is fed directly into a and the digitised information printed out as a linear contour map or as a solid representation in light and shade.
1992	Not only do accurate 3-D models allow information on cleaning, damage and repair to be superimposed as a record of the state of conservation of a work of art, they also allow tailor-made packing cases to be constructed for its transportation.
1992	Veronica Travers, low relief works; Barrie Huntbach, paintings/drawings; John Robinson, collage/drawings; Stephan Watson, imagery
1992	However, her interests bring an involvement in a wider remit and are seen very much where areas such as Business Development, Continuing Education, Access, Public Relations, the centre or the library are concerned.
1992	State-of-the-art visual equipment complements our extensive facilities, with up-to-the-minute links available in two of the lecture theatres.
1993	Doctors have not always welcomed the establishment of systems in hospitals — have often proved difficult to use, and the information has been of more use to  managers than to clinicians.
1993	Often the most expensive element in implementing any project is the day to day disruption of user departments and the initial and continuing cost of training.
1993	We searched the records of the histopathology department for 1987 to 1991 to identify patients who had had adenocarcinoma or metastatic neoplasm diagnosed.
1993	The time of presentation (from generated accident and emergency sheets), time of operation (from the anaesthetic record), delay to surgery (calculated from the above), and final diagnosis (based on independent histopathological examination) were recorded.
1993	Prescribing analysis and cost data are a record of all general practitioner prescribing and provide an excellent research base to investigate changes in prescribing, trends, and the health gain and cost implications.
1993	In particular he thought that competence in literacy and manipulating information technology, which would help them to be ‘lifelong learners,’ were neglected.
1993	Each student on the parallel track was given a personal to use for electronic mail communication with tutors and other students and for access to bibliographic information.
1992	Brighton's Accommodation Marketing Bureau operates a free room-finding service.
1993	The greater use of has brought more ‘transparency’ to the market place, transactors being readily discovered.
1991	A algorithm, AGECAT, has now been developed to undertake this task (Copeland et al .
1991	It is problematic trying to consider hospital readmission rates as most hospital systems currently in operation are not easy to interrogate and rarely produce information about readmissions on a routine basis.
1992	Our new reservations system lets us give you a costing quickly and efficiently normally confirming flight and hotel availability on the spot.
1992	Our highly sophisticated reservations system, is fast and efficient.
1991	Tony Fretwell-Downing, the Sheffield businessman who sponsored the event, very gamely claimed his first ever route with an ascent of the loose and long west flank.
1991	Analysing the comfort of the Aurora using equipment.
1991	Anatomy, physiology, electronic and sciences were all called into play, and five factors that affect the performance of a rucksack were identified: comfort, pressure, friction, excess warmth and muscle tension.
1991	Upstairs in his room there's an Apple sitting on a tiny desk close to the bed.
1992	The simplest method is to use extension sockets plugged into an existing socket — adequate for powering several low-voltage appliances such as hi-fi and home , but not suitable for powerful ones such as kettles and heaters, because there is still the risk of overloading the original socket.
1992	We could move the desk, chair and from the bedroom, books from the dining room, the filing cabinet from the landing, and the freezer from the garage.
1989	Massive multi-coloured electronic charts and maps plotted the vacillating movements in known trouble-spots, print-outs updated existing material and VDUs displayed detailed information on known criminals at the touch of a button, feeding off the thousands of names stored in the system's central memory bank.
1989	We've run a series of programs through the in the Command Centre and it's almost certain that the plutonium originated from the nuclear recovery plant outside Mainz in West Germany.
1989	Half a dozen unmarked doors lined the passage, behind each of which was a soundproofed room where highly skilled UNACO personnel operated some of the world's most advanced and sophisticated systems in the struggle to put a stop to the alarming rise in international crime.
1989	He gave a thumbs-up sign then replaced it and manoeuvred his wheelchair round behind his desk where he tapped his security code into the IBM linked up to the central data bank elsewhere in the building.
1989	The features must have been too indistinct to program into the .
1989	One name caught his eye and he programmed it into the .
1989	‘There's a miniature built into the roof of the lid.’
1989	‘No, that's all done by .
1989	The plutonium's being siphoned off before the figures reach the .’
1989	He exchanged a polite smile with the secretary after Karen had left, then picked up the only magazine on the coffee table and leafed through it, his interest not overly stimulated by a programming manual written in German.
1989	‘And those statistics are transferred on to the ?’
1992	For instance, a three-month-old IBM system (£32,000 rrp) was recently sold at auction for £2,000.
1992	He runs his own company.
1991	IT WAS OBVIOUS the fountain pen was back in favour when it began turning up in advertisements for financial services, and instant coffee.
1991	The force field around him is filled, not with the echoes of keys tapping and the fall-out from easy patter, but with the flickering after-images that are the legacy of a living icon and a once-great player.
1991	I asked Edwards whether putting this on for the unveiling — maximization for the sponsor, the click and clack of keys tapping — had been part of the deal.
1991	This is the opening scene of Concentration Camp Manager , one of a host of fascist games which are currently the blight of European cities.
1991	Eastern Europe also provided an enthusiastic market, as Commodore 64 , obsolete in the west, were sold for a song to young people eager for unity and a non-communist identity.
1991	Like a , it's not that you're clever, it's just that you can access old records with amazing speed.
1991	Yet most of the pilot users we have spoken to have never even known what kind of data could be had from the Skymaster service, let alone reached the stage where they had worked out how to access the information.
1991	Skymaster is just a small part of the large encyclopaedia that is Prestel.
1991	You get into the system by phoning it, at the price of a local call, and linking Prestel either to your personal , a dedicated Prestel terminal or a keyboard that throws the Viewdata picture on to your television set (see How to Get Wired on P15 for further details).
1991	The information which appears on Skymaster comes from the same at Heathrow which churn out the printed stuff so you can guarantee that the data is accurate and changes reach you faster than they normally would on the paper system.
1991	The menus, and their cross references, are well thought out and presented and the most illiterate could quickly master the whole system.
1991	If you already own a personal , communications software and a modem will let you access Prestel on it, and often store and manipulate the information you get on the service.
1991	Any shop will tell you about the various comms packages available for your machine, though bear in mind that some can be quite difficult to set up (and that most American software cannot handle the Prestel standards).
1991	The transition from rookie to fighter pilot starts with two days of selection tests at Cranwell where games, each testing some facet of an entrant's abilities, quickly turn frustratingly impossible.
1991	Airlife have recently produced two other items useful for the microlight pilot — a rule which measures distance on a quarter mill chart and a slide that converts the Airtour to the microlight speed range.
1992	They are there to make your Cosmos Holiday booking easy and most of them will be directly connected to our via our Viewdata system and therefore have access to all the latest information, prices and holiday offers at the touch of a button.
1992	Whether you travel with a briefcase and a laptop , or a suitcase and a camera, you can depend on GTF to supply all you need.
1991	He reckons no team stands a chance without data recording and Suzuki are furthest behind in the technology stakes.
1992	And over the next six months you'll see everything from to paint-by-number books appearing on a beauty counter near you.
1992	The regulates thread tension (it's also possible to make adjustments manually), and there's an automatic sensor to help you sew perfect buttonholes.
1992	We still work in the same building, so we'll often pop into each other 's offices or talk on the phone, although Peter often blips me on my .
1992	Free kitchen-planning service
1987	The collection and evaluation of the data necessary to make a full comparison of all the ‘alternative choices’ available in any policy process are beyond human capabilities, even when aided by .
1991	Here, a fourth reminder of something spewed out from a .
1991	Run by Joe O'Dubhghaill, formerly a cellist with the RTE symphony orchestra, they have plans to add an Akai DD1000 optical disc recorder (for video post-production and DAT editing) plus some Macintosh to their already impressive formation.
0000	There is some television and she is trying to learn how to use , which seems to cheer her.
1988	All of the information was then coded and entered into a mainframe (IBM 3083), and analysed using the SPSSX statistical package.
1988	More sophisticated and complex models of the heroin ‘epidemic’ can be constructed to produce precise estimates for the future, but given the many untestable assumptions of ‘epidemic’models (particularly those based only on figures for known users during a relatively short time period, as in the present case), we did not attempt such an exercise.
1990	accurate information processing (the agent makes all sound inferences, inductive and deductive, from the information, as if equipped with an efficient ).
1990	In particular, probabilities often cannot be quantified (even if it is likely to rain there may be no percentage probability of rain) and so the image of the efficient internal is suspect.
1991	Geoff, who now runs a successful software company, is meticulous about the detail throughout his home.
1991	Home
1991	COOKING BY
1981	Unfortunately for them, however, the technology is rapidly replacing antiquated machines, resulting in a great cut in demand for the old craft skills.
1991	Imagine the scene if you please: Gillian on a bar-stool with satin skirt slashed to the hip, Stuart nonchalantly hefting his tie-knot while working out the current bodybuilder health of the yen on his wristwatch , a barman who knows without asking that Mr Hughes-Sir desires the 1918 late-landed Sercial in the special glass which concentrates the nose, Stuart sliding onto the next stool and casually emitting the subtle musk of his sexuality, Gillian begging a light, Stuart slipping the tortoise-shell Dunhill from the pocket of his unstructured Armani suit…
1991	In the early '80s, the high flyers were in , profiting from a burgeoning interest in cheap micro-computers.
1991	Austrian-born physicist Hermann Hauser, as co-founder of Acorn , led the team which invented the BBC micro in the early '80s.
1991	In 1988, he left to develop a pen-based through his new Active Book Company.
1991	The pocket calculator and home made Clive Sinclair Britain's best-known inventor.
1991	In 1986, his company was sold to Amstrad for £5 million.
1991	Acorn , which he founded with Hermann Hauser, was a pioneer in the mass market, making Curry a multi-millionaire on paper.
1991	Tony Martinez took his company Microvitec, to the stock market in 1984.
1991	‘I just keep coming in and see someone sitting at a not moving, and I wonder, should the be there in lieu of the person?’ says one broker
1991	One leading broker admits, ‘I just keep coming in and see someone sitting at a not moving, and I wonder should the be there in lieu of the person?’
1991	The late 80's have seen investment in new systems — for home shopping £35 million in the past five years on
1991	The last five years have seen heavy investment in a fully integrated system that allows it to deal with a customer's total needs in one phone call — ordering, cancelling and general enquiries.
1991	Home shopping alone has spent £35 million over the past five years putting in systems.
1991	IBM for example, is currently considering what action, if any, it needs to take about its ' visual display units.
1991	Take BIS Beecom International, founded in the mid-1970s by Paul McWilliams, a quietly spoken boffin (‘I like to think of myself as a guru’).
1991	Originally called Beecom —‘it sounded better than Acom or Ceecom’— the company boasts 170 staff working as consultants for a range of blue chip clients.
1991	Such factors of course make Northern Ireland a prime site for locating operations which can be done discreetly with no eyeballing required.
1991	Graphically, it lacked what King calls the ‘world class’ of IBM, Apple , Ford, Sony and Shell.
1991	Users around the world are trying to assess the newer, cheaper and more open to decide when or whether to invest in them.
1991	Some makers are going through a similar analysis but, in their case, the question is how to survive on the thinner margins these machines command.
1991	The result will be a slowdown in spending on hardware and software.
1991	The tighter hardware budgets in some countries could, Price Waterhouse points out, simply reflect the declining price/performance ratio of .
1991	Undoubtedly, there is a great deal of confusion in the UK about so-called open systems — that will use a common Unix operating system so that, in theory, an applications software package developed for one brand of Unix will run on all others.
1991	As yet, there is no single standard version of Unix, but an increasing number of application software packages are being developed for these .
1991	It is now more feasible than ever for organisations to switch from their expensive proprietary machines to lower-cost Unix .
1991	It is not, stresses Pavitt, that the UK has abruptly ceased to invest in hardware and software in the current recession, it is rather that companies which invest prudently, for example, in a better accounts receivable system to improve their cash flow, are likely to outweigh the number of competitive advantage go-getters.
1991	Tracy Kidder's The Soul of a New Machine , Joe McGinniss' earlier The Selling of the President combined ‘new journalism’(meticulous, participatory, eyewitness reporting) with an acute business eye to create best-sellers out of the development of a and Richard Nixon's use of advertising to get himself elected President.
1990	It is now possible for reporters to deliver copy via to the file server where it gets subbed and seamlessly rewritten by the editor.
1990	Thus The Telegraph under its new editor has sought to shed its Torygraph image by appealing over the heads of what Max Hastings described as his paper's principal readership —‘the landed middle class’(sic ) and ‘a second tier of readers who live in suburban bungalows with caravans in the garden’— to the solvent young city (or City) based consumer via state-or-the-art graphics in last year's ‘Hitch-hiker's Guide’ tv ad campaign.
1990	Weeks go by in which, though I attend to my chores at the , I feel mostly like the unwilling bride of the house.
1989	To ensure that your staff or pensioners are paid the right amount on the day you specify, all you have to do each week or month is complete a special, easy to follow form with such variable payment details as bonuses and overtime, and send it to our centre.
1989	The information on the form is processed by our advanced system, which calculates all tax and National Insurance contributions.
1989	Details of monies to be collected can be transmitted in many ways — magnetic tape, floppy disk, telephone, or through bureau — depending on individual preference.
1989	This is based on a master file of regular payments being established on our and authorisation for payment being confirmed verbally over the telephone.
1989	Alternatively, there is MID- CRED where details of all beneficiaries are established on our file, but authorisation is given in writing rather than over the telephone.
1989	A major advantage of both MID-TEL and MID-CRED is that neither system requires customers to install expensive equipment.
1989	BankTrak is included to provide daily balance reporting, together with transaction details direct to a compatible on the customer's premises.
1992	Phil, who has recently been working in the Department of Science at the University, has now left for his 10 week stint in Namibia.
1992	The pre-tests served to iron out anomalies, facilitated the development of a coding frame (which allowed the raw data to be analysed using the Minitab Statistical package on the Brighton Polytechnic Vax ), and prepared the ground for the pilot study which took place in a neighbouring health authority.
1988	Most memos are still paper memos but increasingly they are sent electronically via networks.
1988	This is the name given to integrated hardware and software which allows for the easy production in the office of complex and elaborate documents and reports.
1988	Many of you will already have access to a personal and most of you will have access to one in the future.
1991	For example, recall that when anyone aged thirty today was born, were  rare; the standard equipment in all offices was a manual typewriter; jumbo jets were only at the development stage; transatlantic phone calls went by cable, not satellite; and television was virtually unseen outside the developed world.
1991	If during the last twenty years, the costs of automobiles had declined as fast as those for memory capacity in , today a Rolls-Royce would cost 50 cents (van Tulder and Junne, 1988).
1991	What it takes to succeed in the PC market differs sharply from that for mainframe .
1991	For example, the industry and telecommunications are now converging as technology advances.
1991	NEC in Japan has adopted the corporate slogan ‘C & C’— and communications — to indicate the basis on which it is setting out to compete across the world with IBM and many others.
1991	They have excelled in leading-edge technologies for military and applications.
1991	The chip that goes into a state-of-the art VCR begins to approach the requirements for a .
1991	For example, to run a system in the 1960s, hardware accounted for 80 per cent of total costs.
1991	A two-way trade is illustrated by ICL's alliance with Fujitsu, without which ICL could not have developed its current range of mainframe and Fujitsu could not have expanded so quickly into European markets.
1991	I'm caught in the cross-fire between on one side the US which wants to export , the motor and textile industries which complain they cannot modernise and thus compete without a change in the law, and on the other side the Brazilian industry which argues we are leading them into bankruptcy.
1991	Under these circumstances, it is unlikely that foreign firms will scramble to take advantage of the new policy under which they can subscribe for 30 per cent of equity in a local producer.
1991	You simply place a barcoded Trakback label on your parcel, then make a free call to our centre, to confirm when your parcel was delivered.
1991	It is a two storey structure which contains conference facilities and facilities for the University as a whole.
1991	There is also a room containing the University's 5 ‘Prime’ together with the Library Service's own Data General machine.
1991	A series of microphones mounted above public buildings around Manchester and linked to a central record the noise levels of aircraft and fines are imposed for exceeding permitted levels, 109 perceived decibels in the daytime and 101 at nighttime.
1991	Sadly, there were two advisers, John Wrighthouse advising on personnel and Bernadette Rathbone advising on quality engineering in manufacture, who received no enquiries whatsoever.
1993	The area of research is the automatic recognition of handwriting and printed text by .
1993	Firstly, it allows a more user-friendly means of communicating with .
1993	For example, people who are unfamiliar with keyboards could choose instead to interact with the using their normal handwriting.
1993	Secondly, existing paper documents could be scanned into a and then converted to electronic form to allow further processing.
1993	Effective text recognition, whether by human or , relies upon the successful disambiguation of confusions such as the above.
1993	When typewriters and produce text, it is in the printed form.
1993	Since the has no’ eyes’with which to read, another form of input device must be used.
1993	There are two methods by which text may be input to a for the purpose of recognition.
1993	Firstly, it allows a more user-friendly means of communicating with .
1993	People who are unfamiliar with keyboards could choose instead to interact with the using their normal handwriting.
1993	Secondly, existing paper documents could be scanned into a and then converted to electronic form to allow further processing.
1993	Despite rapid advances in technology in the last three decades, there have been few changes in the methods by which communication with is achieved.
1993	For many and computer-controlled machines, the keyboard remains the principal method of input.
1993	However, the proliferation of technology continues, and applications involving novice users are becoming increasingly prevalent.
1993	Most users are capable of reasonable handwriting, and can usually write quicker than they can type.
1993	do not have the knowledge and experience of the average human reader, so for them to cope with the ambiguities shown above they need to have access to repositories of the different sorts of knowledge.
1993	Natural language is the most convenient mode for communication with interactive systems, particularly for users who are not literate.
1993	Either way, the acquisition of this knowledge is essential, and in the case of this represents a considerable problem.
1993	Firstly, it allows a more user-friendly means of communicating with .
1993	For example, people who are unfamiliar with keyboards could choose instead to interact with the using their normal handwriting.
1993	Secondly, existing paper documents could be scanned into a and then converted to electronic form to allow further processing.
1993	However, the difference, in practice, is that whereas human understanding involves the identification of the most consistent of a number of interpretations, recognition usually involves the identification (and hence elimination) of the least consistent ones.
1993	The emphasis in human understanding can be seen as top-down , or hypothesis-driven , whereas recognition is usually bottom-up or data-driven .
1993	Computational Linguistics could be defined as the study of systems for understanding, generating and processing natural language [Grishman, 1986].
1993	These knowledge sources are essential to the comprehension of all but the simplest discourse, and hence present a considerable acquisition problem for .
1993	Furthermore, the use of text corpora was hampered by severe practical difficulties: were rare and expensive, and the only method of acquisition was manual input.
1993	However, in recent years the processing power and storage capacity of have increased dramatically, and many more textual resources are now available in electronic form.
1993	By contrast, a has no such knowledge.
1993	This phenomenon precipitates an interesting question: is the effect repeatable by a ?
1993	In other words, can semantically related word pairs be differentiated from semantically unrelated word pairs by a ?
1993	The third, however, is both reliable and objective; and furthermore has benefited greatly from the advancement of technology and a proliferation of textual resources in electronic form.
1993	The importance of such knowledge becomes apparent when attempts are made to produce programs that can understand text [Schank & abelson , 1977].
1993	The’ Harriet was hungry’example may be only nine words long, but it nevertheless demonstrates many aspects of knowledge that need to be made explicit to a before it could be said to understand.
1993	: the has no implicit notion of Harriet's status as a sentient being, nor her concomitant need for sustenance;
1993	: the has no knowledge of the biology or chemistry involved in the digestive process, and hence no conception of the way in which the intake of food satiates hunger;
1993	: the has no knowledge of the cultural norms that would identify the fridge as being a likely repository for food.
1993	Until these questions are answered, no can be said to understand language.
1989	Within the crowded streets and lively squares of the city lie a plethora of tiny open-air stalls selling everything from incense to caged pigeons, over six thousand restaurants serving the gamut of cuisine from Korean to French, and an array of gleaming hitech buildings housing progressive companies and financial whizzes.
1991	It contained his personal , which was linked to at both the Pentagon and the CIA headquarters in Langley.
1991	The itself could only be activated by an access code known solely to Bailey.
1991	The nerve gas would only be released if the incorrect code was programmed twice into the .
1991	He tapped another code into the and moments later a dossier appeared on the VDU.
1990	The United States also became a still more potent international competitor in the 1980S — especially in fields such as .
1990	They have aimed to participate in all, or nearly all, of the major fields, and to be net exporters of major electronics hardware items (TV sets, , telephone switches); they also seek to have a major defence and aerospace industry and to be net exporters of television programming.
1990	They expect to be net importers of a variety of items — varying from to television programming.
1990	These nations also recognize that their public sector purchasing would not be enough to maintain a full array of aerospace, telephone switch and industries.
1990	The European industry has thus acquired a predominantly free market policy regime (with, of course, significant elements of the other policy traditions).
1990	Another was Nixdorf, the German company, which targeted specific business markets, for example offering a business package of hardware, software and services to banks; Nixdorf also successfully entered the privileged circle of recognized suppliers to the Bundespost.
1990	No European company ranked among the world ‘top ten’ in 1986; and IBM's turnover was greater than the aggregate turnover of the next g companies.
1990	Telecommunications companies as varied as AT&T, Ericsson in Sweden and Standard Telephones and Cable in Britain, have all followed the convergence theory into , but without great success so far.
1990	Space also meant international telephone calls; and space systems not only incorporate advanced but also facilitate the worldwide movement of data between terminals.
1990	Not least space involves the convergence of mass media technologies with those of the telephone and the .
1990	In other fields — most notably those concerned with — both France and Britain have been far from successful.
1990	Another major area of United States dominance has been the industry, on which more shortly.
1990	Despite these differences, communications markets tend to be extreme examples of economies of scale, for a number of common reasons: The high research and development cost, as much as $1 billion or even $2 billion — for a new ‘generation’ of telephone exchanges or — operates as a membership fee to a small and diminishing group of corporate players.
1990	But of the 20 US companies in the table, five are telecommunications carriers, five are aerospace and defence electronics   specialists, and four are companies.
1990	Big often achieve huge profit levels; ‘clones’ of IBM may deliver more computing power for a significantly lower price.
1990	As seen from Japan, United States strength remains formidable in several fields, not least in aerospace and .
1990	United States defence spending has been a key driving force behind much of the electronics, telecommunications and industries.
1990	The US military space and intelligence agencies — as well as the civilian federal government had not merely been the key early purchasers of .
1990	The military funded languages (like COBOL and ADA), networking systems (like Ethernet), and advanced computing research at MIT, Stanford and Yale, among other universities.
1990	Some Europeans saw these policies as designed to subjugate the industries, not only of eastern Europe, but of western Europe as well.
1990	The German Siemens was in a stronger position in several ways; in addition to its and telecommunications equipment strengths, Siemens in the late 1980S was attempting to catch up with the vertically integrated Japanese electronics companies; it was making a major chip effort, with use by the German car industry especially in mind.
1990	As with most other new communications industries in the twentieth century, the United States quickly established a huge lead over the rest of the world.
1990	The industry also conformed to a common American pattern of running into anti-trust difficulties — following IBM's overwhelmingly successful System/360 offerings of the early 1960S.
1990	This was an integrated family of large with related software which would allow for convenient upgrading.
1990	Most remarkable was its late, but spectacularly successful, entry to the baby , or microcomputer, business.
1990	It used a then unknown company called Microsoft for its personal (PC) operating system.
1990	For example, the factory at Montpellier manufactured all the at the top range and these were delivered to every country in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
1990	This did not mean that this factory produced every single component used in the .
1990	The  memory-discs connected to these came from the factory in Mainz, West Germany, and the printers from the factory at Jarfalla in Sweden.
1990	Two of the old Bunch (Burroughs and Sperry) merged into Unisys; Digital Equipment (DEC) and Hewlett-Packard provided increasingly severe competition in the minicomputer range and as the main beneficiaries of ‘down-sizing’(in effect producing mainframe-level power on a much smaller and cheaper machine).
1990	Thirdly, the western European industry was also staging a mild recovery.
1990	From 1984 onwards IBM increasingly faced not only a series of alliances, but a grand alliance of nearly all other companies in the world.
1990	The grand alliance favoured a new set of standards called open systems interconnection (OSI), which was intended to allow all types of in the world to talk to each other within any kind of network.
1990	The grand alliance of OSI became public in May 1985 when a meeting of 20  companies, dominated by US rivals of IBM, met in conference and established the Corporation for Open Systems.
1990	From 1983 onwards nearly everyone in the world jumped aboard the OSI standards bandwagon.
1990	It quickly attracted the support of the major western European companies, which — along with the European telecommunication authorities — had been its major proponents.
1990	The big American users — such as Boeing and General Motors — which had been pioneers of intra-company networks, were also natural supporters of OSI.
1990	Thus the arrival of the major US companies in mid-1985 consolidated an anti-IBM grand alliance which had begun in Europe and now included all the other leading companies of the western world, all the telecommunications authorities and government regulators, and all of the pioneering computer-user companies.
1990	Smaller and software are less suitable for single-company domination than were hardware and mainframes.
1990	Whatever happens to IBM, the world  and European markets seem likely still to be dominated by the United States and Japan.
1990	While Japan has some half-a-dozen important companies, the European nations tend each to have one lonely champion (the Germans have two — Siemens and Nixdorf).
1990	The rise of Japan on the world scene is illustrated by the history of Fujitsu, which at its foundation in 1935 used telecommunications technical assistance from Siemens.
1990	Fifty years later Fujitsu was well established as a supplier to Siemens of mainframe .
1990	A change was, however, made in 1985 for one non-Japanese company; IBM, long one of the big four companies in Japan, was the foreign company granted this privilege.
1990	But viewed from Europe this could easily be seen as yet another example of a US-Japan alliance designed to maintain the status quo of world dominance.
1990	In effect the European industry had already by summer 1984 obtained IBM's agreement to the OSI requirement and this — not anti-monopoly — was now Europe's chosen route.
1990	IBM's overall market share in each main national market in Europe was around one-third.
1990	These telecoms authorities apparently regarded IBM as members of their purchasing club for .
1990	Government purchases in Europe were in the early 1980S supposedly opened up by EC rules to a free market.
1990	In practice governments typically split their major purchases between IBM and one other company.
1990	In the larger nations in the 1980S IBM in effect became the second national champion, and in some smaller countries perhaps even the first national champion supplier.
1990	The loose political consensus in the United States which produced the AT&T break-up of 1982–4 also hoped to encourage telephone deregulation in the rest of the world; the AT&T high command were especially eager to enter both the business and the world market for telephone equipment.
1990	Moreover AT&T made only modest progress in entering the business and the world telecoms equipment market.
1990	Such relaxation of state monopoly control of telecommunications as occurred was mainly in ‘communications’ areas lying between telecoms and .
1990	Public procurement and especially defence procurement led to a double demand for semiconductors, which were used directly (for example in military missiles (and which were also in heavy demand from the industry (for defence and other federal government use).
1990	Texas Instruments, the American merchant producer, made its first overseas chip production investment in 1957; it chose the United Kingdom because at that time the UK represented the most favourable military and market outside the United States.
1990	One third of IBM's $60 billion world sales in 1988 were in Europe; DEC and several other American companies also showed major gains across Europe.
1990	In the chapter by Martin Hughes on children's uses of , both intellectual and social issues are addressed.
1990	For example, a pedagogy aimed directly at fostering disembedded thought needs to be devised, as do appropriate evaluation procedures.
1990	On the social issue, Hughes notes the recent concern that girls may not benefit so much as boys from using .
1990	Does this imply that in schools, girls should be introduced to in girls-only situations?
1990	From the results of a preliminary study, Hughes urges caution, for when girls worked on a task with other girls, their performance was found to be noticeably poorer compared to girls who had partnered boys.
1991	You'll find over 70 exhibits to choose from, every one different — from fairground mirrors to hi-tec challenges.
1991	Or to design a ‘tree’?
1991	The lighting of the galleries has also been transformed and controlled blinds fitted to prevent damage from excessive levels of daylight.
1991	Visitors are guided through the baths as they would have appeared in Roman times by artists' reconstructions, spoken commentaries and fascinating graphics.
1990	A second training scheme is Training Links, which is a six to ten week course to assist adults to return to the labour market by working on their personal effectiveness, usually through the medium of brushing up their writing skills, using confidence building techniques and skills.
1991	Don't worry if you haven't, as our Tarot will select a number for you from which Frances will make her reading.
1991	If you've always worked on the account of companies that deal in furniture, say, you could just as easily do the same job for a company dealing in .
1992	It's mostly chipboard based, but I did buy an old 60s wardrobe quite cheaply which I cut up to make a work station.
1985	Having passed seven CSE's at school, she said,"I reckoned that if I had a future then studies was where it would be.
1980	The Classic Von Neumann
1980	THE TYPICAL programmer sees a modern in terms of one or more high-level languages, together with a command language which he must use to communicate with the operating system.
1980	His only contact with its hardware may be with an interactive terminal (if he is lucky), or with a series of error messages couched in terms of the internal structure of the (if he is unlucky).
1980	Even the assembler-language programmer is protected from some of the worst idiosyncrasies of the 's hardware by the ministrations of the operating system (typically in the control of peripheral devices).
1980	The aim of this book, however, is to look beneath this superstructure, and to describe and their variation at a basic hardware level, below the operating system but above the detailed electronics; we discuss further the nature of this level in § 1.3.
1980	We first consider a very simple , with which we can introduce the basic concepts and terminology required for the remainder of the book.
1980	We choose to do this in terms of a simplified version of the described in the paper ‘Preliminary discussion of the logical design of an electronic computing instrument’ by Burks, Goldstine, and Von Neumann (1946), for reasons which will be mentioned later.
1980	This , shown in Figure 1.1, consists of four sections: the store; the data manipulation unit; the input and output units; and the control unit.
1980	The store is a collection of store locations or words , into each of which the can place a piece of information, to be retained for later extraction and use.
1980	Thus a word can store any information that can be coded in the form of an appropriate number of binary bits: such a piece of information might be a numeric value, a group of one or more characters, or (as we shall see later) an instruction for controlling the .
1980	The word length for the store of a particular is chosen to hold a maximal numeric value or number of characters appropriate to the application area and cost to which the is designed.
1980	In order to store or retrieve information we must have some means by which the can refer to any location.
1980	In order to store a piece of information, it is placed in the SDR; the address at which it is to be stored is placed in the SAR, and the control unit of the sends a ‘write’ signal to  the store.
1980	In order to retrieve a piece of information, its address is placed in the SAR and a ‘read’ signal sent to the store; after some delay, the information is available in the SDR, for routing to some other part of the .
1980	Notice that we avoid the (anthropomorphic) term memory, and the term core store, which presupposes a particular store technology (although it is often used generically); when we wish to distinguish among several levels of storage on a , we will refer to this basic level as main or primary store.
1980	In a oriented towards numerical calculation, the operations must include provision for addition and subtraction, and probably multiplication and division as well; on a oriented towards character manipulation there would be various operations for moving and scanning character strings.
1980	We have chosen a name for this unit which does not presuppose numerical calculation; other terms for this unit are the arithmetic unit, the arithmetic and logical unit (ALU), and the mill (a term introduced by Babbage, and used in some British ).
1980	Any has a number of input/output or peripheral devices attached to it, both for communication with the outside world (card readers, line printers, terminals, etc.) and for augmenting the 's information storage capacity (magnetic discs, magnetic tape, etc.).
1980	At present we assume that the does only one thing at a time.
1980	If a read or write operation is started on a peripheral device, the awaits the completion of this operation before continuing with the next.
1980	When we consider that a typical input/output operation is thousands or millions of times slower than a typical internal operation (such as the addition of two numbers), and that there may be other tasks to which the could turn its attention while such an operation is going on, then we can see scope for redesigning the in this area.
1980	The control unit supervises the operation of the other three sections of the discussed above.
1980	While the is running, the control unit is executing a basic cycle divided into two phases, fetch and execute.
1980	Thus the selects a course of action dependent on the data values it encounters.
1980	One of the consequences of holding instructions in store locations is that they can be treated as data, and manipulated as such by the .
1980	Suppose, for example, that we wish to write a program in which the has to sum N values held in successive store locations, perhaps with store addresses 100,101,102, and so on .
1980	On the simple described above we would have to do something like the following:
1980	Furthermore the lack of any rigid demarcation between the (unchanging) program  and the (changing) data means that the hardware cannot be used to protect the program from corrupting itself, nor can a single copy of a program be shared simultaneously by several users.
1980	The stored program concept, the realization that instructions can be encoded and held in the store of the together with the data being operated on, is an important one for two reasons.
1980	Since this is such a vital concept, all the discussed in this book are stored program .
1980	We are thus ignoring two classes of externally programmed device, common in the early days of computing:(a) whose programs were held on such external media as paper tape or punched cards.
1980	(b) Devices where the program resides in a plugboard, such as the early ENIAC (Goldstine and Goldstine 1946).
1980	We could envisage with two main stores, one for the program and one for data, but these would be very inflexible.
1980	The general-purpose electronic digital
1980	We have introduced the term , and by this we mean a device which can process substantial quantities of data without detailed human intervention.
1980	We have limited the field to stored-program , and we further limit the field to general-purpose ; that is, to with an instruction set rich enough to perform a wide variety of tasks.
1980	This concept is rather vague because it can be shown that a with a very basic instruction set can simulate a Turing machine and therefore can, in theory, perform any "computable" task, so that such a is (again in theory) completely general-purpose (see for example Minsky 1967).
1980	However, we will from time to time assume that we are discussing electronic , implemented by the routing and gating of electrical signals.
1980	Finally, we will be considering digital , where data is stored and manipulated by devices that can assume one of only a finite number of states, rather than by devices which can assume any state in a prescribed continuous range (as in analog ).
1980	Von Neumann's
1980	There are many possible which could have been used to exemplify the terms we have introduced.
1980	For example we could have used a simple such as the DEC PDP-8, or a suitable hypothetical such as that presented for didactic purposes by Knuth (1968).
1980	However, these have assimilated some of the developments in design which we will discuss later.
1980	Instead, we choose to use the Von Neumann, Princeton, or LAS (Institute of Advanced Studies) introduced in Von Neumann's paper.
1980	We take this paper to mark the beginning of the era of modern computing, since it was the "first widely circulated document about high speed " (Knuth 1970).
1980	The paper proposed a with a store of 409640-bit words stored on the faces of a number of "Selectrons" or electrostatic storage tubes, this being a device able to provide random-access storage before the introduction of the ferrite core store (first used on the Whirlwind at MIT in 1953).
1980	Although such a device matches the modern conception of main store, most early (such as EDVAC (Knuth 1970) and EDSAC (Wiles and Renwick 1949)) had a serial store, implemented as a magnetic drum or set of delay lines (as discussed in 5.6).
1980	The word length of 40 bits was chosen to give suitable accuracy for  the type of fixed-point binary calculations for which the was designed (hardware floating-point arithmetic having been rejected).
1980	Apart from the storage of two instructions to a word, the only extension to our rudimentary is in the provision of a second storage device or register in the data manipulation unit, the arithmetic register AR, used in conjunction with the accumulator for multiplication and division; the need for such a register is discussed in 2.1.
1980	Figure 1.6 shows how the section of program in Figure 1.2 would appear encoded for the Von Neumann , to occupy locations 50 to 53.
1980	It was expected that input data would be transcribed to the magnetic wire by a process which did not involve the , and similarly for output.
1980	Word-oriented single-address binary
1980	Some basic features of the Von Neumann do not carry over to all the other designs we will study, for it can be characterized as a word-oriented, single-address binary .
1980	(a) To say a is word-oriented means that the basic unit of storage is a word, of from twelve to sixty-four or more bits, able to hold a complete numeric value or (usually) at least one instruction; in 2.5 we will meet the character- or byte-oriented , where the basic unit of storage is 6 to 8 bits long.
1980	(b) A single-address or one-address holds only one store address per instruction.
1980	(c) Finally, this is oriented towards the performance of arithmetic on values held in a binary format (that is, to base two).
1980	Strictly speaking all modern digital are binary, in the sense that the basic electronic units out of which they are built can assume either of exactly two stable values (thus representing one binary bit).
1980	We thus use the term binary for which manipulate numeric values expressed directly in a binary format, and decimal for those where binary patterns are interpreted as decimal digits.
1980	The Development of the
1980	Since the introduction of the stored program concept, there have been many developments in the design of general-purpose digital , but only two can be described as vital omissions from the described in the previous section.
1980	The first of these is the index register, introduced on the Manchester University Mark I in the late 19405 (Kilburn, Toothill, Edwards, and Pollard 1953).
1980	This can be done by providing a storage device in the control unit, called the index register (or B-line on the Manchester ).
1980	The second major development in design is the interrupt facility, which seems to have appeared first on the Univac 1103 (Bell and Newell 1971, p. 48) in the early 1950s.
1980	In early , as mentioned above, input/output (or transput) operations were treated in the same way as internal operations (such as addition); once the operation had been started, the control unit awaited its completion, before continuing with the extraction, decoding, and execution of the next instruction.
1980	This was an inefficient system, since there would often be other processing that the could be doing while a transput operation was being completed.
1980	A better solution (common to all modern ) is to allow the control unit to continue with subsequent instructions as before, but to allow any transput unit to interrupt the control unit when an operation is complete.
1980	As we shall see in 6.3, the interrupt facility can be expanded to switch instruction sequences on the occurrence of many different events; further we will see the need for a means of ensuring that at critical times the is able to ignore all but a subset of these events.
1980	It is traditional in the field (insofar as the term "traditional" has a meaning for a subject only thirty years old) to refer to four generations of , according to the electronic technology out of which the control and data manipulation units are constructed.
1980	We tend nowadays to see these generations not merely in terms of the underlying electronic technology, but also in terms of the organization of the hardware and software involved in a system; thus the transition to the fourth generation can be seen more as a change in the way that systems are organized (with the use of such techniques as virtual storage and distributed intelligence), than as a change in the underlying technology.
1980	A major problem with early was the question of reliability; pessimistic forecasts were made of the mean time to failure of assemblies of several thousand valves, and a prime consideration in designing a was to make it as simple as possible.
1980	With the improving reliability and flexibility and reducing cost of electronic components, it is possible to build more complex hardware systems to simplify the requirements on the programs.
1980	As with the history of the automobile, several radically different early designs were tried out before the main stream of development settled on the Von Neumann  model; some of these ideas have reappeared as specialized or as variations on the basic model (for example parallel operation of components of the data manipulation unit).
1980	Because of this we will not attempt in this book to trace a historical sequence from early, simple to later, complex ones.
1980	The history of is discussed in Serrell, Astrahan, Patterson, and Pyne (1962), Rosen (1969), and Randell(1975).
1980	In the early development of there was a split between designed for scientific calculations and designed for commercial or business data processing.
1980	Scientific would carry out calculations on numeric values held (on the earliest ) in binary fixed-point format or (more typically) in binary floating-point format; the transput facilities, particularly in the first generation of , would be rudimentary.
1980	for business use, on the other hand, were oriented towards operations on strings of characters and would require much more extensive transput facilities; arithmetic would normally be in decimal rather than binary, to avoid the time taken in conversion.
1980	Nowadays it is clear that this distinction is illusory; scientific applications of often require character string manipulation and need many of the transput facilities of business data-processing, while business applications increasingly need sophisticated arithmetic calculation.
1980	Thus many third and fourth generation provide a range of facilities (such as several data-types) in an attempt to cover the whole spectrum of applications in one design.
1980	Another important application area for is in real-time control.
1980	Once reliability was adequate, could be used to control chemical plants, scientific experiments, missiles in flight, and the like.
1980	Such have, of course, to stand up to more extreme environmental conditions than in the application areas described above.
1980	Recently such minicomputers have become more similar to in the mainstream, with extensive data-types and with larger addressing ranges, and are entering the fields of more conventional scientific and business computing (see for example the early DEC PDP-8, and the more recent PDP-11, Data General Nova, and GEC 4000 series).
1980	We see, therefore, that a number of specializations have appeared since were introduced, but typically these have been reabsorbed into the mainstream of computing.
1980	With each generation of technology, the physical space taken up by the electronic components has become smaller and smaller, until with the introduction of large-scale integration (LSI) it became possible to fit thousands of components onto a silicon chip less than a quarter of an inch square.
1980	We can use these microcomputers to build "intelligence" into appropriate parts of a system (such as the transput devices), but they are increasingly finding applications outside conventional computing, for example in controlling washing machines and the ignition systems of cars.
1980	The physical implementation and application areas of microcomputers are thus different from mainstream , but at the instruction set level which we discuss in this book they can be treated as variations on the central Von Neumann model.
1980	As on the Von Neumann , the Intel 8080 has an (8-bit) accumulator, on which most arithmetic operations take place, and a (16-bit) program counter, to hold the address of the next instruction to be executed.
1980	Ranges of and optional features
1980	When we discuss design variations in the ensuing chapters, we will tend to make two assumptions which it is as well to clarify; first, that each is designed independently for a particular application area and to purely technical criteria; and second, that a design is implemented as a fixed set of facilities for all customers.
1980	In fact a manufacturer normally designs a number of compatible models rather than a single , and these cover a range of speeds, capacities, and costs.
1980	This makes it easier for the customer to move to a larger model in the range as his requirements increase, and eases the manufacturer's problem of providing software for a number of different .
1980	Examples of this are the ICL 1900 and 2900 ranges of .
1980	Furthermore, manufacturers wish to transfer their customers to their new ranges of from earlier models, and therefore want to minimize the problems of transition.
1980	This can be done by making the new range of architecturally similar to earlier models, and by making improvements only in the technological implementation of this architecture; alternatively we can use microprogrammed emulation, as discussed in 3.6.
1980	To the technical criteria for designing a particular will therefore be added criteria of compatibility with earlier models or with other models in the same range.
1980	This is, of course, part of the technological solution of the manufacturer's general marketing problem of capturing and retaining a customer base.
1980	First generation were designed with a fixed instruction set and store size, and with a fixed complement of transput devices.
1980	It soon became apparent that customers had different requirements for the number and type of transput devices to be attached to their .
1980	It is usual today therefore to provide a number of general electronic interfaces to which a range of transput devices can be attached, and a set of general instructions which can be used to control any transput device available at present or in the future, from the manufacturer or elsewhere.
1980	So most models are now made available with a range of different storage sizes.
1980	Finally, we mentioned above that many third generation have a range of facilities to cover a number of application areas; if some of these facilities are optional, we may particularize Our for an application area by selecting from these options.
1980	Thus a model is tailored for a customer by a choice of optional features, main store capacity, and number and type of transput devices.
1980	architecture
1980	In this book we are concerned with those internal design aspects of a which directly affect the way in which it processes data; we therefore exclude such external aspects as the packaging of electronic components and units, the supply of power, or the conditions under which the is capable of operating, important though these are.
1980	As we suggested earlier, most users (and even most programmers) see the at a level remote from the hardware, shielded as it is behind layers of operating system and compiler software.
1980	In this book we will be looking at the level at which facilities are provided in electronic hardware, as they might be seen by a system programmer about to implement the most basic software on the .
1980	We term this the level of architecture, at which a set of logically integrated hardware functions are programmed to carry out   the processing of data.
1980	We could implement the same architecture in a number of ways, and some ranges of (such as the IBM 370 range) are designed to a common architecture but with a radically different physical implementation for each model.
1980	We drop below the level of architecture to discuss these in Chapter 8.
1980	Furthermore, we discuss certain concepts in design which could be treated as implementational, their use being transparent to the architecture; the cache stores of 5.4 usually fall into this class.
1980	If control and data signals are propagated through the circuits of a only at time instants controlled by a master "clock" or pulse generator, then we have a synchronous .
1980	If signals are propagated through the circuits at a rate governed only by the delays in the circuits themselves, then we have an asynchronous .
1980	Because of the greater simplicity of design, the major units in a are generally synchronous.
1980	In data manipulation on a parallel all bits of a word are processed at the same time, while on a serial the bits of a word are processed one after another.
1980	Thus if addition takes t time units per bit position, a serial with n bits per word will take nt time units to add two words, whereas a parallel will take t time units (plus some time for the carry propagation).
1980	A serial requires less logic in the data manipulation unit than a parallel , but the control unit may be more complicated.
1980	Many early were serial, since they were built round serial storage media such as delay lines.
1980	Nowadays store technologies are inherently parallel, and the majority of are parallel in operation.
1980	The choice of a serial implement tat ion for a would affect the architecture to the extent that we must choose a representation for negative numbers that can economically be processed in a serial manner.
1980	Finally, the speed at which arithmetic operations can be carried out is one of the limiting factors to the internal processing speed of a .
1980	Details of such topics can be found in books on hardware design such as Hill and Peterson (1973), Hellerman (1973), or Townsend (1975).
1980	In early , in particular those of the first generation, little distinction was made between architecture and implementation; the architecture was whatever could reliably and economically be implemented in hardware.
1980	Today there is a growing tendency to define a architecture some way above the basic hardware level, to be implemented in a mixture of hardware and software, whose proportions may vary with the evolution of technology and with different models in a range.
1980	In Figure 1.1 we showed a typical divided into four sections: the store; the data manipulation unit; the control unit; and a number of transput units.
1980	We therefore treat these two sections as one, the central processing unit or processor, and we redraw our typical as shown in Figure 1.10 with three sections: the store; the processor; and the transput units.
1980	In Chapter 2 we consider the formats in which data might be held for manipulation by the , and the types of operations appropriate to each format.
1980	When we turn to the third section of Figure 1.10, we see a wide range of devices for receiving information from the outside world, for transmitting information to the outside world, and for expanding the storage capacity of the .
1980	Because of this wide range, most  designs are not tied to the details of individual devices, but provide generalized transput control features and instructions, to which any selected input, output, or backing storage device may be interfaced.
1980	All the we consider are general-purpose, at least in theory, although they may be oriented towards particular application areas.
1980	In Chapter 7 we consider whose orientation has resulted in an architecture radically different from those in the rest of the book, although they have a sufficiently general instruction set to lay claim to universality.
1980	Finally, in Chapter 8 we consider some topics on the border between architecture and implementation; dealing with faults in the hardware of the , ways of speeding up the processor, and the interface between and operator.
1980	There is a problem in analysing designs in this way, in that a is an integrated system, and decisions in the design of one section of the will have effects in other sections.
1980	We must therefore expect certain aspects of design to reappear throughout the book, to be seen from a slightly different angle each time.
1980	In order to provide specific illustrations of the ideas and techniques discussed in the book, we use a number of well-known conventional as running examples throughout the text.
1980	(c) The IBM 360 and 370 ranges of medium and large , based on a common "byte-orientated" architecture (see 2.5).
1980	(d) The DEC PDP-10 (appearing in the late 1960s: DEC 1972c; Bell, Kotok, Hastings, and Hill 1978), a typical medium-sized, word-oriented .
1980	(e) The Burroughs range of medium and large comprising the B5000 (appearing in about 1961), the B5500, B6500, and B7500 (appearing in the late 1960s), and the more recent B5700, B6700, and B7700.
1980	In the text we refer to this architecture as the "B6700 " for brevity.
1980	(g) The ICL 2900 range of medium and large (announced in 1974; Huxtable and Pinkerton 1977; Buckle 1978) and the University of Manchester MU5 (Kilburn, Morris, Rohl, and Sumner 1968; Sumner 1974; Ibbett and Capon 1978) on which it is based, as examples of more recent architectural practice.
1980	It has been shown that a single instruction is sufficient (in theory) for a general-purpose (Van der Poel 1956); however, instead of a theoretically sufficient instruction set, what we require is an instruction set which provides a practical set of operations in which applications can be programmed.
1980	The DEC PDP-8 has the instructions shown in Figure 1.11, and this must be near the lower practical limit.
1980	The IBM 370 range of has more than 180 different instructions, but some of these provide the same operation (such as "add" ) on different data types; we could reduce this number by using a tagged architecture, as described in 2.6.
1980	The architecture of a is usually defined in terms of the format and effect of machine-level instructions.
1980	This description is given, partly verbally and partly in a more formal way (by tables and diagrams), in the system reference manual, or in a programmer's guide to the 's assembler language; the latter tends to subsume the effect of some of the 's more basic software in the description.
1980	There have been a number of attempts to define languages at the assembler level which would be portable from one to another; the compatible ranges of the previous section are, of course, one such attempt.
1980	Conway (1958) suggested a Universal Computer-Oriented Language or UNCOL, which would be a common assembler language for all .
1980	However, a sufficiently general language would have all the disadvantages of not being able to deal with the idiosyncrasies of a particular , with none of the advantages of a high-level language.
1980	Bell and Newell (1971, Chapter 2) suggest a pair of notations for describing ; ISP (Instruction Set Processor) for descriptions at the instruction level, and PMS (Processor-Memory-Switch) for an over-all view of hardware components making up a complete system.
1980	The ISP notation has been used to describe the appropriate parts of the DEC PDP- Il (DEC 1972b).
1980	In this book we will be using verbal, informal descriptions rather than such a formal language for two reasons;(a) these languages define more detail than we usually wish to consider; and (b) they describe complete , whereas we wish to look at any stage at a particular aspect of a number of .
1980	One further means of describing a should be mentioned for completeness; this is the use of some numeric value or values to indicate performance.
1980	In early the add or store cycle time would be quoted; even today raw power may be expressed in terms of the number of instructions executed per second, using a weighted average over some standard instruction mix.
1980	This of course says more about the technology than the architecture of a .
1980	A more realistic performance measurement, which takes into account the effectiveness of an architecture, is the resources (including time) required for processing a set of standard benchmark programs, which cover the expected areas and types of use of the .
1980	Describe in detail the sequence of steps carried out by the store, data manipulation unit, and control unit of the Von Neumann when executing the sequence of instructions given in Figure 1.6.
1980	How does the Von Neumann distinguish between a location holding a pair of instructions and a location holding a numeric value?
1980	A set of fifty numbers is held in the store of a Von Neumann , say in locations 100 to 149.
1980	Two index registers are to be added to the Von Neumann .
1980	Using your extensions to the Von Neumann for problem 1.4, write a program to sort into ascending order 100 numbers starting at, say, location 200.
1980	1.6 Suppose the Von Neumann had n input devices, the ith device having a device flag register DF; and a device buffer register DBi.
1980	When the interrupt system is on, and any device flag register is set to 1 then the finishes the current instruction, switches the interrupt system off, stores the contents of the program counter in the left-most twelve bits of store location 0, and continues to execute instructions starting at location 1.
1980	Obtain a manual describing the instruction set of a medium or large .
1980	Write a program to simulate the architecture of a of your choice (such as the Von Neumann ).
1980	Do you have to make assumptions about details of the implementation of the in order to complete your program?
1980	Is there any way to distinguish the running of a program on your simulator from its running on the original (apart from speed)?
1980	Write a program, for a to which you have access, to  clear all of main store (including that occupied by the program).
1980	If this is not possible on your , what is the minimum number of uncleared locations?
1980	IN THIS chapter we describe various formats in which data may be stored and manipulated within the .
1980	Historically the has been seen as a device for performing calculations (as evidenced by the term "" ), and for this reason we commence our discussion of data-types with the fixed-point binary format.
1980	Not only is this format the simplest and earliest means of storing numeric data in the , it is also used for store addresses and forms the basis for encoding the individual subportions of more complicated arithmetic data-types, such as the fraction and exponent of the floating-point format described in 2.2.
1980	For further reading on arithmetic see Richards (1955), Flores (1963), Knuth (1969), or Stein and Munro (1971).
1980	It should be noted that, despite the historical primacy of arithmetic calculation as the raison d'etre for , we ought perhaps to see them instead as symbol-processing devices.
1980	We would then treat arithmetic as a set of manipulations which (in theory) could be built up from these more primitive operations, but which in practice are supplied as basic instructions for efficiency.
1980	A word holds a fixed number of bits, in a range from about 12 to 64, and we number these bit positions consecutively, starting at zero at the right-hand or least-significant end.
1980	We could instead scale all numeric values held in the by agreeing that this bit position shall represent some other positive or negative power of two.
1980	There is now only one representation for zero, but there is now a negative number whose absolute value cannot be represented in the word.
1980	All three methods have been widely used, with two's complement as the most common on current ; we use this convention for the rest of the section, unless stated otherwise.
1980	The most common organization for arithmetic operations is the one-address system introduced in the Von Neumann in Chapter 1.
1980	Thus we have a processor register called the accumulator, the same length as a word of storage.
1980	The basic instruction set of the DEC PDP-8 (Figure 1.11) provides TAD, DCA, CIA, and CLA which are (a),(d),(e), and (g), with (d) in a form which clears the accumulator after storing its contents.
1980	The Von Neumann , for example, has a range of load instructions to load the accumulator with the contents, negated contents, absolute value of the contents, or negated absolute value of the contents of a store location.
1980	A number of early had an instruction to extract a square root, but nowadays this operation is achieved by software.
1980	Since we are considering a binary , multiplication and division of the contents of the accumulator by a power of two can be accomplished by shifting the contents to the left or right an appropriate number of positions.
1980	Notice that the right shift truncates the result; some provide a version of arithmetic right shift which adds to the right-hand bit position of the result the value of the last bit shifted out.
1980	Whatever the method of representing negative numbers, most provide the appropriate arithmetic shifts to preserve the numerical validity of the shifted results.
1980	However, we will consider the provision of hardware for both operations, the usual situation on modern medium and large .
1980	On the Von Neumann this was called the arithmetic register (AR); but it is more commonly referred to as the multiplier-quotient (MQ) or quotient (Q) register.
1980	It will be seen that extra instructions are now required to load and store the MQ  register, either directly from or to a store location, or via the accumulator; see for example instructions 9 and 10 on the Von Neumann (Figure 1.5).
1980	As discussed in 3.2, many modern have an array of accumulators.
1980	Some have a variation on the multiply instruction which delivers an n-bit result for operands limited in size, or which rounds a 2n-bit result to n bits.
1980	This dividend register will be the register which holds the product in multiplication, made up of the accumulator extended on the right by an MQ register (on a with a single accumulator) or a pair of adjacent accumulators (on a with an array of accumulators).
1980	On the Von Neumann the only conditional jump instruction was one which tested for a non-negative value in the accumulator.
1980	Overflow is the condition in arithmetic calculation when the result of an operation cannot be correctly represented within the , without changing the form of representation.
1980	On some , no automatic tests are made for overflow, and the programmer has to incorporate into his program explicit checks for overflow as required.
1980	On early which included automatic tests for overflow, a detected overflow condition caused a halt.
1980	For this reason, some have further instructions to deal with such operands, held either in a "double-length" accumulator (the combined accumulator and MQ register, or a pair of adjacent accumulators) or in two consecutive store locations.
1980	On early sets of subroutines to perform these manipulations were provided, but the task was soon taken over by hardware.
1980	Thus, on most medium and large modern , hardware is available (perhaps as an optional extra) to manipulate arithmetic quantities consisting of a numeric value together with a scaling factor, and this is known as floating-point arithmetic.
1989	On C…'s instructions, Peter's next step was to attempt a break-in to DPR's system, i.e. the leadbank.
1989	(5) Bleasdale (Harvard OTC)"The company has just arranged a major deal with British Telecom who will market and supply their .
1982	The design team may have many forms from a single individual working alone to a broadly based curriculum development team with specialists in curriculum design, graphics, programming and observation; however, for our purpose it is useful to emphasize three roles — the curriculum designer who has overall responsibility for the program teaching unit and its associated written or audio-visual material, the program designer who realizes the program and the teacher developers in whose classrooms the material is tried and tuned.
1982	consult with specialists.
1982	The program designer takes charge of the production of the program for the unit which must achieve a presentation that allows the educational objectives to be reached.
1982	The teacher developers are distinguished from the teacher users by the fact that they must already be well acclimatized to using in the classroom.
1982	Indeed the curriculum designer, the program designer and the teacher developers all need to be, as far as possible, ‘literate’, ‘observer literate’, ‘subject literate’, in other words they should be able to communicate clearly about all aspects of the work.
1982	We discuss the program in rather anthropomorphic terms, referring successively to the talents personality and style of the program.
1982	Notes on talents
1982	The speed of information processing of , allowing thousands, even millions of operations per second, underlies many of their potential capabilities.
1982	The impact of the television screen is very compelling and it is the graphics facilities of the system that enables the program designer to utilize it.
1982	Also, current systems and their software often limit the effective use of the screen unless the designer is ingenious enough to overcome such limitations.
1982	Although the speed of the does not allow animation comparable to that which can be produced on film, there is no doubt that this facility, which has only just begun to be explored, can give real power to the teacher.
1982	This can be established by programs in which the actual experimental apparatus is linked to a simulation.
1982	At the present time, the keyboard, screen and printer remain the dominant devices for communicating with the , with tape and disc as the principal storage facilities.
1982	The designer can program the to respond in any way to a chosen input stimulus.
1982	We believe that the 's ability to generate quasi-random numbers is educationally most important.
1982	Questions set by the , which then supplies the answer for checking purposes after a randomly set time delay, seem to have a powerful motivating effect and are but one example of the effectiveness of the 's simulating the random elements which the pupil experiences in everyday life and work.
1982	During the use of some programs, eg, PIRATES (see reference 1), if the pace of the lesson is not controlled, so much information is contained in pupil responses and responses that it is almost impossible for the teacher to process it as efficiently as he would like.
1982	Interactive programs can present in a powerful way ideas, facts and basic techniques.
1982	The micro is used simply as a device for presenting information as requested by the teacher — an electronic variant of the blackboard or overhead projector which uses the 's talents, for example, to do graphs, display pictures, record and reproduce data, or perform calculations.
1982	simulations of physical or social systems are the best-known examples of this mode, but the possibilities are much wider.
1982	We consider how a program could support them, also what balance of teacher, pupil and program interaction might prove effective.
1982	Setting the scene and capturing attention are more easily assisted by a program than the other aims.
1982	The teacher's role may  well and probably should be the major one with programs providing plenty of illustrations and challenges.
1982	It seems that individual work with some group work is often beneficial, and we can certainly turn to the to provide some material.
1982	Children seem to be highly motivated by this ‘beat the ’ situation with its immediate feedback system.
1982	The program will dominate at such times and promote considerable activity; the teacher is then free to concentrate on management and coaching activities, and a discussion of tactics.
1982	An advantage of this technique is that the teacher can decide while using the program what level of exercises to generate — the program offers a great deal more flexibility in this respect than an ordinary textbook.
1982	This demand for flexibility will tend to swing the balance of load back to the teacher, with the program in a supportive role.
1982	talents such as selective input, timing, randomization, patience, diagnostic design, are useful.
1982	Diagnostics (see page 32) have a role to play — perhaps where individual use is possible, diagnostics for the child's consumption only would be beneficial.
1982	Each teacher tends to have his own particular strategy and will wish to employ the program as part of it.
1982	Memory aids identified by the teacher, particularly useful in the build-up of a topic, could be given special treatment in program presentation, using such talents as graphics, colour and animation and the ‘personal attribute’ of humour to emphasize and help retention.
1982	In conjunction with the teacher, examination of all the talents is needed by the program designer.
1982	In its simplest use, the sits in a corner and each child has an individual session with relevant material; so inevitably only a short time would normally be available.
1982	This complex phase of learning, which requires the pupils to make a synthesis, really demands high-level skills from the teacher — the supporting role of the program can nevertheless be an  important one.
1982	Teachers need to recognize problem-solving as a specific activity, build it into the curriculum — perhaps well-designed programs could assist this difficult task by creating some interesting environments which if not exactly ‘real’ can have some exciting behaviour to explore.
1982	They can indeed be developed by quite simple environments, eg, JANEPLUS, by quite young children.
1982	Indeed aid may well open up many more problem-solving activities to younger children.
1982	The aims and potential objectives of the teaching unit will be built into the teaching material, the program being a part of this material, and their successful realization by a wide range of teachers will depend crucially on the driving system of the program and the image of the unit that it presents to the user.
1982	On the drivechart the decision points, represented by square boxes, each offer a natural group of alternative routes to the teacher, who chooses one by pressing a single key — eg, ‘1’ selects the inverse problem where the provides the ‘output’number from the named function and invites the class to guess the ‘input’number.
1982	Since the language is only recently published and is not yet implemented on any commercially available system (Apple 4 when it is available may support a subset of the SMALLTALK)(see reference 8), we shall not try to describe its structural syntax but only some of its essential elements.
1982	A window is a screen display stored in the which can be created, recalled, modified, scaled, repositioned and combined or overlapped with other windows by user messages.
1982	The designer of a teaching unit involving a microcomputer must be aware that the available hardware and software facilities impose bounds, under each of the headings under ‘Notes on talents’(page 22), upon the material which can be successfully implemented.
1982	In choosing systems the following features must be considered:— make of — version of ROM monitor, and of the operating system — version of BASIC and its facilities, and other language alternatives — amount of memory available for a user program — availability of disc storage for files — availability of cassette storage for files — availability of additional hardware, eg, high-resolution graphics, sound generator, graphics tablets or voice control.
1982	A significant part of screening a design idea for practicality involves knowing the kinds of facilities or ‘talents’ that are realistically available as building blocks.
1982	(i) the addition of extra hardware boards or components in the can, with suitable software, provide such things as fast floating-point arithmetic (making calculations significantly faster), medium- or high-resolution graphics up to a grid of (say) 500 by 500 points, sound and voice synthesis, colour output, a real-time clock, and standard device controllers.
1982	The input to a program should be clear and kept to a minimum; the output on the screen should be clear and presented at a sensible speed; and any ‘special’ or complex procedures should appear to the user as ordinary and easy to use.
1982	As well as good documentation and ‘driving’ information for the user, as described on page 35, it is also very important to document the program as a further aid to those who wish to understand how the program works or modify it in some way.
1982	Once the teaching unit has reached the stage of a draft program which does what the designer intends, together with associated notes which describe what the program offers and its possible uses in the classroom, we need to consider in more detail how to collect essential information as to what actually happens when the unit is used.
1982	Whether the class moved to a special room in order to use the .
1982	Whether the teacher feels that this particular lesson was enhanced by the use of a program.
1982	talents
1982	Is the time of responses adequately controlled at each point?
1982	Did the play an essential role? 10.
1982	In this case their attitudes to the learning tasks in which teachers attempt to engage them, particularly work with , are the objects of inquiry.
1982	Is the pupil under observation engaged in a learning task specifically (a) initiated by the , or (b) allotted by the teacher? 6.
1982	Is the pupil engaged in task-related behaviour additional to the specific instructions given (directly or indirectly)(a) by the ,(b) by the teacher? 7.
1982	We suppose that in a typical case only part of a lesson will involve the .
1982	C = teacher with experience of teaching with a .
1982	C = teacher not experienced in using the .
1982	C D trials — the unit is on trial with a teacher very familiar with the unit, but unfamiliar with systems: surprisingly this can occur quite frequently with subject teachers who have been closely involved in the design but who are as yet unfamiliar with .
1982	CD trials, with teachers who are new both to the unit and to the system, are important at the present time because most teacher users will be in this category.
1982	Indeed, during the observation period of various teaching units using programs we have seen the units used on many occasions in a very different fashion to that envisaged by the development team responsible for their design.
1982	The appears to dominate the whole scene to the detriment of constructive pupil activity- (a common danger).
1982	In general, the cause could be:—‘Hawthorne’ effect of a new, highly motivating medium — teacher relaxing too much into a supportive role to the — too many different options offered by one program — the game environment presented by the program too addictive.
1982	When asked why she allowed the so to dominate in this way, she replied ‘It's the first time they have been quiet for a whole week!’, reflecting the second cause in the list above.
1982	In these early days of computer-based teaching units when there is very little effective material available, it is likely that any school with a will try to collect such material but then it will not necessarily reach all the relevant subject teachers; the chance of getting to H2 and browsing through the program will then depend on communications within the school.
1982	Mainly it will be the mathematics, science or studies teachers or the keen sixth-formers who are intrigued or stimulated to write such software.
1982	We suggest that the minimum target audience would be teachers in the same neighbourhood in schools with exactly the same system and available software utilities.
1982	To reach such a target audience we probably need, at the minimum,(a) about two pages of description by the authors of each unit, telling the user how to load the program, how to drive it, and its limitations both educationally and technically this information could be included on the disc or tape that loads the program (b) some incentive to the programmer to document the program to this level, perhaps through its resulting acceptance into a ‘library’(c) assurance from those receiving the program that they will be prepared to deal with the problems that such draft programs impose — this implies that they must be fairly competent users of their system: they could not expect to get software support from the author, who is likely to be another teacher whose time is fully occupied (d) some financial and organizational support for the distribution of programs, even if only on a cooperative basis (e) that users of such programs should undertake to report to the authors (and to the library?) on the usefulness of each program received, and if they wish, to make recommendations for improvement.
1982	(a) a general introduction to the topic or concept that the teaching unit is concerned with and a brief description of its potential (b) very clear instructions on how to drive the program, usually including a key-by-key sequence to introduce the user to it and a clear description of the full range of possibilities that it offers (c) a description of some of the ways teachers have used the unit (d) discussion of its educational objectives and suggestions for further use (e) references to educational material that would provide support for this topic or concept (f) a full annotated program listing with specifications of the different systems that would support the software.
1982	A program developed to a professional standard including:
1982	available for the systems under 1f, ie, on cassette-tapes or discs.
1982	Publishers are only now becoming aware of many of the new problems that producing and distributing programs will present, and publication methods for such material must be considered experimental at this stage.
1982	The use of an interactive as an aid to teaching involves programs, each of which has an identifiable range of content or subject matter X, the program provides a preset repertoire of ‘comments’ and ‘responses’from which the teacher can select particular elements using the driving system; these are designed to promote transactions with the pupils and the teacher aims at moving towards ‘understanding X’.
1986	Alice was to work in he, Andrew, would arrange for her to have a quick course of training, which would be a sufficient basis on which an intelligent woman like her could build.
1988	Mention is made of greater use by science, music, geography, studies, history, English and home economics.
1988	The issue of readability had been discussed at an open library committee meeting attended by other staff, where a programme for reading-level assessment had been demonstrated.
1988	However, it is arguable that representatives of subject areas not so conventionally identified with the notion of a school library (e.g. art, science, and studies) might have helped to break the stereotypical view of school libraries as the preserve of the English department and provided the team with some refreshingly different perspectives.
1986	Current advances In new technology mean that analysis of complete texts is already possible.
1986	Most books will soon be set completely by , and thus the publisher will have a machine-readable version available for analysis.
1986	It may appear curiously anachronistic to include a chapter on "hearing children read" in a book which looks forward to language and learning in an age of and mechanisation.
1986	In summary, the future pattern will probably include the following ingredients: 1 recognition that oral reading and silent reading should proceed simultaneously, from entry into school; 2 longer periods given to individual reading interviews, which will necessitate re-organisation of the curriculum, with a greater emphasis on group work based on collaborative learning; 3 the group work will have clear outcomes, many of which will start with silent reading and result in reading aloud for communication; 4 the teaching of phonics will be seen as one possible cueing system only, resulting in the use of more intrinsically interesting texts which will enable contextual hypotheses; 5 the realisation that books as such may be diminishing, will demand that other forms of print are incorporated into reading aloud in school, for example, from and teletext; 6 the teacher's professionalism will be accepted as lying in the understanding of the reading process and the development of the child, and in his or her power to train the child to read independently for real purposes as early as possible.
1986	A simple clash of information will be found if books published ten years ago dealing with modern technology (, etc.) are compared with those published since 1980.
1986	Ten years ago, a was a large, static and very expensive piece of machinery, operated by an expert elite who communicated with it in a language which only they understood.
1986	Today, are small, portable and cheap, and may be programmed by schoolchildren with an ease and assurance that terrifies their parents.
1986	(The role of the teacher in the classroom is to deal with all the problems that the cannot solve — helping the child who still doesn't understand, hearing children read, and acting as manager, counsellor and troubleshooter.)
1986	The presents a cloze passage on the screen.
1986	The deletions may be chosen either by the teacher or the .
1986	After each one, the compares the guess with the answer in its memory.
1986	The advantage of using the is that the answers are confirmed immediately rather than after the whole passage has been completed.
1986	The presents a jumbled sentence on the screen, e.g. "John school went bike on his to" .
1986	Once again, accurate typing is essential as the will not respond to misspelled words.
1986	The asks children to type in five nouns, five verbs and five adjectives.
1986	The children quickly learn that the cannot discriminate between noun, verb, adjective or preposition and will happily use whatever is typed in.
1986	The accepts wrongly-spelled words, nonsense words and rude words and displays them on screen in the story to the amusement of the class.
1986	In one, the child is invited to write a story with the , choosing from a list of possible scenes.
1986	The asks "What would you see at a football match?"
1986	The scans its memory, finds "police" and prints little blue policemen around the perimeter of the pitch.
1986	If the child cannot complete it, then he or she can ask the to help.
1986	The could offer suggestions, e.g. "There are eleven ____ in a team" , or might produce a list of words containing one the child hasn't tried.
1986	The child spots it, types it in, and if the picture is complete, a whistle blows (can produce sounds!), and a player runs with the ball and scores a goal.
1986	The asks the child if he or she wants to work the section again or choose another scene.
1986	Many word-games already used in classrooms are extremely effective on the .
1986	The insistent demands of the make it hard for attention to wander, and unlike a human opponent, it cannot be sidetracked, or exhausted.
1986	The prints a word, e.g. caterpillar, with a picture of a long green caterpillar beside it.
1986	The totals the number of responses and the  correct answers; then when the child can supply no more words a full list of all possible words will be displayed, with the child's answers in colour.
1986	There may be some temptation for the child to fail deliberately in order to see the man hang, now that many have high resolution graphics!
1986	The satisfaction in beating the is phenomenal!
1986	Most of them come with explanatory booklets detailing the words and commands the understands, and include a description of each cave or room that Samson might enter.
1986	The adventures usually contain puzzles that have to be solved, cryptic advice, plays on words, red herrings, and some really useful information that is only revealed when you've asked the the right question, correctly phrased.
1986	The understands exactly the same by"Get sword.
1986	Children become aware of this and tend to communicate in only those words that the understands.
1986	The adventure ties up a for quite a long time.
1986	At present, with relatively few in schools this will be a problem, but hopefully in the future there will be plenty of time available.
1986	: What are you going to do?
1986	: You find nothing.
1986	(The doesn't always reveal the whereabouts of traps, secret doors and invisible creatures the first time of asking, unless Samson has high intelligence or is experienced.)
1986	: You find nothing.
1986	: You find 20 silver pieces.
1986	(increments Samson's treasure total.)
1986	: Treasure No. 6.
1986	(adds it to list of treasures discovered so far.)
1986	: Footsteps.
1986	(If you are experienced and intelligent and listen again, the may reveal the type of creatures that are approaching.)
1986	: Three goblins come through East door.
1986	:(Door opens on room plan.)
1986	: You fire an arrow.
1986	: You swing your sword.
1986	: A lightning bolt kills goblins 1 and 3.
1986	(The adds the value of the three goblins to Samson's experience point total.)
1986	One such is the football management program, and there are several different versions of this for different .
1986	: Your first round match is at Wimbledon.
1986	(The doesn't always give extra information.)
1986	: Wimbledon play 4-2-4.
1986	The speed that the commentary scrolls up the screen can be controlled from the keyboard on some .
1986	The number of phrases that can be used is only limited by the 's memory.
1986	Other sports would make good programs, e.g. lawn tennis, show jumping, or team athletics, as well as simulations of jobs such as managing a pop group or running a boutique.
1986	The has in its memory a list of foods and prices.
1986	Stephen J. Clamp (1983) suggests that "teaching awareness and simple programming skills is a useful addition to the curriculum."
1986	I would go further and assert that typing simple programs into the is a useful spelling and reading experience.
1986	Most magazines publish short games programs.
1986	The program involves the interrogation of a database for information.
1986	The plays the part of witnesses and criminal.
1986	This could be an individual activity but, as in many verbal games, group play is preferable.
1986	Several additional uses for the are described by George E. Mason (1983): using the to administer diagnostic tests; letting the child teach the ; and using the as a "focus for student hostility" (!).
1986	He describes a program called ELIZA which enables the child to hold a coherent conversation with the .
1986	The recognises some of the words and phrases which the child types in and reflects them back at the child as open-ended questions that encourage the child to reply.
1986	used as word processors are appearing in offices, colleges and universities.
1986	Children type their stories into the or microwriter.
1986	Another refinement might be to use a disc-based "spelling checker" , which highlights words in the text that the cannot find in its vocabulary of 40–50,000 words.
1986	Computer-based individualised reading programs will benefit all children once there are enough in our schools.
1986	The can provide this attention.
1986	The : 1 always offers an encouraging, positive response; 2 provides a successful experience; 3 lets the child work at his or her own level; 4 treats the child as an individual; 5 gives instant feedback which is essential for correcting bad habits; 6 presents reading in a peer-approved way; 7 is highly motivating.
1986	One day, the primary teacher guiding children through their instructional program may be able to prevent reading failure altogether.
1986	Until then, the will be of considerable help to the less successful reader.
1986	Schools will be able to buy a reading scheme which will take all their children from non-reader to fluent reader with the directing and providing the child's learning activities.
1986	In addition, the would run reading and diagnostic tests, offer remedial programmes and keep complete records of child attainment.
1986	Child reading profiles, detailing work  done, books read, skills learned, spellings known and test scores, would be printed by the in a few seconds.
1986	Teachers will have to judge whether schemes meet the needs of children, but also what scope there is for teacher initiative, knowledge and intuition once the scheme is in operation.
1989	He is self employed and is a partner in a newly established small business.
1989	They used the straight original as the starting point for perhaps the most elegant demonstration of photographic compositing by yet devised.
1989	Ritchin's demonstration had a serious purpose: "The is at the heart of a revolution in image-making.
1989	The pixels which make up an image on a digitized screen are like building blocks which can be coloured and combined in any way the operator's , competence and ingenuity allow.
1989	These composite photographs were made by the artist Nancy Burson with the aid of two creative scientists, David Kramlich and Richard Carling.
1989	Working with a video camera capable of converting an image into digital form, a and a specially designed software programme, the trio were able to create photographically convincing composite portraits.
1989	The face on the screen is seen through a grid which divides into 512 horizontal and 480 vertical squares.
1989	Burson has made images of missing children, aged by , for their families and for the FBI.
1989	These were an office photocopying machine, instant passport photos, a (with which Salomonic columns were drawn), and real gold leaf.
1989	Several elements are mixed, held together in solution, in the picture and in an observer's mind: motifs reminiscent of radiation warnings and technology, of the human afterimages left at Hiroshima, of effigies from ancient times or an imminent future, of graves and hard rain.
1988	Program is now generally used, relating to .
1988	They are, of course, like , only as good as the people who program them, and do not offer miracle solutions to impossible situations.
1986	While these means of human communication are fundamental to our culture, other technological means of communication such as television, radio and have become so powerful and specialized that they can greatly influence how we perceive and accept new information.
1986	You will deal with the specialized skills of hundreds of others in the service industries from art houses to printers to script writers to programmer wizards.
1986	Just think of the variety of work you may have to commission: graphics or cartoon treatment for a commercial; a glossy colour illustration or a strip cartoon; action, fashion or food photography; straight-forward shots of the client's packs.
1986	For a career in public relations in the future, experience with word processors, , and an understanding of information networks, which many large manufacturing companies now have on a world wide basis, will be mandatory.
1990	Although essentially separate and independent, they share a number of  resources including the central criminal record department, the police national and the national reporting centre.
1989	Within existing Compacts, companies have funded prizes for attendance, , conferences and other activities.
1989	The scripts were marked at the NFER and the results fed back to the schools in the form of a printout.
1989	One printout format included incidences of errors and diagnostic information as well as right or wrong codings, but it proved time-consuming for teachers to use and expensive to produce and post, so generally only the simpler right or wrong data were sent to the schools.
1989	Branching routines can be written into the software so that the can "talk back" to pupils according to their responses.
1989	The can record input and present analyses to a high level of detail, and can also dictate to an extent the order in which mathematical tasks are performed, e.g. estimation before computation.
1987	The younger generation is used to Assisted Learning and other modern technology which is an adjunct to learning.
1988	It means striving for excellence everywhere and every time, whether it be in the warehouse, reception, operations, the sales offices or elsewhere.
1988	It is a paradox of modern-day business that, with time-saving devices such as desk-top , satellite telecommunications, electronic mail and supersonic aircraft, many managers find even less time to devote to essential profit-making activities — such as thinking and listening to people.
1988	It is easy to blame the machine, the or the system — but somewhere along the line a human being operated that machine, programmed that , used that system.
1988	Today it is virtually a sin to do without a in the office.
1988	While he believes in and requires effective administration, he leaves it to the experts, to the people who have a flair for making things happen through systems and , and paperwork.
1988	It's called his brain, and what he can't store there he stores in a single cabinet backed with a simple personal and word processor.
1988	Selling well and producing baked beans efficiently are functions of skill, not of personality.
1984	They decided that by 1985, the would be a "commonly used tool" in education, both for computer-assisted instruction and for record-keeping:
1984	By 1985 the will also have assumed much of the burden of instructional classroom management, such as pupil progress reporting, attendance and general information keeping…
1984	The teacher will be able to place inputs such as pupil and instructional data into the school's via a remote input-output console in each classroom.
1984	Other consoles will be reserved for pupils' use in drills, exercises and exploration experience.
1984	Holography…may do to visual image reproduction what lasers will do to data storage and have done to data processing…
1984	Recently, experimental work has investigated the use of the programmed technique in what is now called computer-assisted learning, where the programmes are fed into the ; the machine can then, if the initial preparation has been thorough enough, monitor the responses of a great many students at a time, switching them to the appropriate branching sequence as their responses demonstrate the need.
1984	When we go into schools where are actually in use, we find them serving as expensive page turners, mimicking programmed instruction texts.
1984	Yes, have practically infinite branching capabilities, but this matters little when we are unable to foresee more than a very few of the more common possible learner responses.
1984	Many of the concepts of systems analysis, useful in management theory as well as in technology, spilled over into adjacent areas.
1984	The systems approach, as we saw, developed from cybernetics, management theory and technology, and crudely  transferred from these areas of activity its use in education can be appalling.
1984	Of course, whereas human beings would be expected to find difficulties with such notation, would not; it would be a simple matter to programme the to recognize such symbols in any sense that was necessary.
1984	Just as most large organizations and systems have found important uses for the in accounting and housekeeping operations, so also large libraries, whether public, academic or special, have tended to put their acquisitions and other operations on to , and considerable experiment has been going on with the applications of computerization to information retrieval.
1984	It is perfectly simple, relatively speaking, to store on magnetic tape within a a full catalogue entry, including a classification symbol or symbols, and to label each segment of the information in such a way that the can be programmed to find it on demand.
1984	Thus a catalogue could print out on demand all the items of which Dr Rhodes Boyson was the author; or those which had his name in the title; or all the items having to do with a specific topic, even something so very specific as "The effect of solvents on the killing of bacteria by phenol" ; or all the items in tape-slide format; or all the items published in Bletchley in 1975.
1984	For that matter, a catalogue could relate different demands together, so that one could find out what was in the collection in tape-slide format on the emigration of Cornish tin-miners to southern Wisconsin in the nineteenth century, suitable for advanced students in the sixth form (ages 17–18).
1984	The could reveal this information, Ii it had been previously fed into the data store.
1984	For instance, a can search he words of titles and print out all items containing the relevant key terms, but if an astronomer asks for anything to do with black holes, he may find himself presented with material on the Black Hole of Calcutta, or titles in which the two words appear separately and accidentally, unless the search procedure is more tightly controlled.
1984	Moreover, in the humanities and much professional and social science literature, titles are by no means the precise description of the subject matter that one usually expects in Nature; in a notorious example, an article on information retrieval appeared in the Library Association Record entitled "How golden is your retriever?" — an article which would greatly puzzle dog fanciers who had turned to the for search along these simple lines.
1984	The is very fast; it can be set to scan the text of journal articles and print out the titles of all which use significant key words more than a stated number of times, and it can be set to tell us how many times Shakespeare used a particular expression, and in each case it can give the results quite astonishingly quickly.
1984	The abilities of the will remind some readers of the experiments in many school resource centres using, instead of the Dewey Classification and a simple card catalogue, one or other variety of post co-ordinate indexing, frequently with optical coincidence punched cards.
1984	In the wider field of information processing in general, the development of and other sophisticated instruments has opened up a great many possibilities for really elaborate information retrieval techniques, but there remain very substantial difficulties of thesaurus control which librarians and information scientists in, particularly, the United Kingdom are at present exhaustively examining.
1984	For the simpler tasks of cataloguing, none the less, the has a major contribution to make and is already making it.
1984	National and international bibliographic data can be fed into in machine-readable form.
1984	The Library of Congress Catalog and printed card service, and the weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual and subsequent cumulations of British National Bibliography, plus its own printed card service, derive from this data base, and it is hoped to begin experiments towards the provision of a similar store of catalogue data on audio-visual materials in due course from which all manner of useful selected print-outs can be derived.
1984	Futurologists, of course, see enormous possibilities ahead for the .
1984	It will help us to re-examine two questions which are central to any educational institution:(i) what contributions to the learning process can be made by libraries, independent study, the new media and the ? and (ii) what are tutorial staff/or?
1984	And the age at which children begin studies leading to an understanding of the and its interrogation gets younger and younger.)
1987	Williams, an Old Stopfordian then at Manchester University and the inventor of the "Manchester Automatic Sequence-Controlled Calculating Machine" (widely and more succinctly known as the "Electronic Brain" )— the first in the world with its own memory.
1987	His invention of the first in the world to possess a memory has already been mentioned, but his work also included radar during the War and new types of electric motor later.
1987	The new school year saw the opening of a Language Centre, and the Adshead Room, founded by means of a generous bequest from the will of Professor J.G. Adshead, who has been mentioned already in these pages and who had died in August 1979.
1978	The idea of a long-range eight to ten passenger variant utilising TFE-731-3 powerplants, a redesigned fuselage and designed 3D wing to provide exceptional shortfield performance without sacrificing range and high cruise capability, was no uppermost in Dassault's future programme.
1978	The "PartsBank" service is widely recognised in the U.S. as the most unique transportation and distribution system for time sensitive inventories, which is especially suited to the electronic and industries.
1987	In this respect, the book is a sequel to the earlier work Elementary Matrices by Frazer, Duncan and Collar, a book which, by presenting problems in a form which could be assimilated by , stimulated the growth of the latter.
1987	In the present book, the subject is brought up to date and related to modern methods.
1987	The book will be accompanied by a "computational adjunct" in which a number of BASIC programs for use on home will be presented.
1988	The librarian The librarian is what might today be called the college's chief information scientist — responsible for the policy and running of one of the college's principal physical assets — its information base, contained in books, journals, and microfiche stores and archives.
1988	With the phenomenal explosion of information science in recent years, the vast increase in publishing costs and the reduction in government grants to educational establishments, librarians seem to spend a great deal of their time these days poring over print-outs on library utilization, in order to help them decide where to recommend cutbacks in library service (e. g. shorter opening hours or reduced service from enquiry desks).
1988	An air-conditioned library, laboratory or suite is ideal.
1988	It's extremely doubtful whether, in these days of technology, information is still best conveyed by means of lectures.
1988	Because the majority of college lecturers have yet to be convinced that there are better ways of conveying information — e.g. by the use of video or — or are too lazy to investigate or to try them.
1988	You should learn the lay-out of the library and discover how to use the catalogues, bibliographies, microfiches, on-line terminals and reference sections.
1988	You should edit your notes, just as you might edit a file.
1988	Some students think that all good writers come to their task in a well-organized fame of mind outline intact, ready.
1984	Rather more sophisticated is British Telecom's Prestel service, This is a two.way system using telephone lines; users can conduct a "conversation" with the Prestel .
1984	For PR departments which have invested in, or have access to, a word processor or small , the problem is solved.
1992	And, in respect of the admissions report, er as you will recall er Colin and others thought that perhaps more information might be useful or would like er to see different ways in which the reports er on the er  information
1992	as to the information  that can be produced by our .
1992	In other words it's a new  it's something which is not done directly from the but which is using information the provides.
1992	Obviously I would be very  loathe to agree to have to now provide different information again other than that which is  going to be readily  er available through the .
1992	I would need to check with the  erm  er manager  you know which fields are takeable, you know how, I don't know if you know re how records are stored but every piece of information like erm the admission figure, the title, the distributor will be a field and I presume if er any information like the time is in a separate field then you would be able to have a report by fields.
1992	Which is I think where we finished up last time that when we've got the stuff on we can
1992	Ah well you've got a system now which is wiser than anybody here.
1992	It's on the though, I think we can manage
1992	yes,we we've got to look at this  in in in  in the assessment er  procedures as well but we've go we've got to try and link this up with er the  the the work that we're doing  erm  we we've got I I I think really we we should have  possibly a reasonably hefty session one evening next week to say right, how are we going to put this into practice?
1992	that you'd done that because I started it as well on the
1992	printing on the
1992	And what happened in eighty three and eighty seven of course was that the local elections take place  the Conservative party managers analyzed the results, fed them through the and you could come up with the fact that you would, looked like you were set to win a general election.
1992	They've set up, increased the numbers of discs in the library  in the workshop  er, there's no increasing them up here cos there's, we need to buy a , but certainly up  and in the workshop  and in the library.
0000	Unless  the prosecutor is in the fortunate position of having  a printout of your driving  er le , holding your licence record  the case won't be able to proceed today anyway.
0000	Your worship, I would anticipate that it normally takes at least three weeks for a printout  for the to be able to
0000	And this case is adjourned for three weeks in order that a printout will  can be obtained.
0000	Unless the prosecutor is in the fortunate position of having  a printout of your driving  er record and your licence record  the case won't be able to proceed today anyway.
0000	Your Worships I would anticipate that it normally takes at least three weeks for a printout  from a to be obtained.
0000	He went not to collect particulars and feed them into a , he went to get down on his knees and get himself covered in mud and blood.
0000	In our particular ministry in St Louis Missouri  we are trying to use the vast technology that's available to us in linking up with other organizations such as Catholic charities, Salvation Army and others, so that when persons are in need of help they can go to one organization and tell their story and they don't have to keep going from place to place telling their story over and over and  we're beginning to look toward the use of and what they are capable of doing in order to help resources stretch.
1992	I've started that, I've gotta, just gotta  I went and played on the yesterday.
1992	And played on the yesterday
1992	Predictions have value of course because these are things which affect climate and affect people's lives, but also making a prediction is a way of trying to verify whether the understanding that we think we have about how the system works can actually be translated into equations which are put on a , and then when you let this go it in fact s does indeed do what the real world does.
1992	Well the only way we can see is to turn to the, to the physicists and the experts and to remove the chemical steps from our analytical scheme and use the speed and precision of the newer types of maschotrometer We already use auto-samplers for gas chromatography but now we need to bypass chemical steps.
1992	Better facilities .
1993	Erm  does anybody have on any of their various a large map of England?
1992	and the humanities
1992	Scholars in the humanities, like researchers in other subjects, make use of for word-processing, for cataloguing the books in their departmental libraries, and also for desk-top publishing.
1992	This generic use is not my topic.
1992	I want to talk about the use of in actual research, and the features of that use which derive from the special characteristics of the humanities.
1992	University lecturers in the humanities are making increasing use of for teaching purposes; but this too lies outside my scope.
1992	The uses of the in humanities research can be divided into three main kinds, depending on the nature of the objects studied.
1992	A humanities researcher may use a to study strings (as in natural language processing or the analysis of literary texts) or to study numbers (of discrete items or events, as in social and economic history) or to study icons, whether visual (as in art history), or acoustic (as in musicology).
1992	Of course individual humanities disciplines make use of more than one of these types of study: the student of literary style will make statistical studies of the frequency of the lexical strings and grammatical features identified in his chosen text; the historian may have occasion to search through and analyse the texts of his primary sources in machine-readable form.
1992	In art history a large part of electronic data processing takes the form of cataloguing works of art, and only a small proportion of research concerns pattern recognition or digitization of images; in musicology it has only recently become possible to study scores directly input to the without the mediation of alphanumeric code.
1992	In all humanities disciplines the is used in an endeavour to replace intuition with quantification.
1992	In all humanities disciplines the use of seems to have passed through three stages, each corresponding roughly to a decade.
1992	The first stage was the period of pioneering work: the abortive first attempts at machine translation; the earliest concordances; the early authorship studies of Morton, Ellegard, Mosteller and Wallace; the first conferences on computing in the humanities (1964–7) and the more specialised ones in history and anthropology (from 1962) and in literature and linguistics (from 1970).
1992	During this period concordances to many major works of literature were produced by , but published in traditional hard copy.
1992	In history, in particular, the use of to provide material for use in monographs, once a matter to be trumpeted in the text, became a commonplace to be noted without elaboration in footnotes.
1992	With the advent of cheap microcomputers in the mid-eighties, the typical humanities scholar was more likely to be found doing research at home on a personal , attached no doubt to a network, but engaged much less interactively with colleagues in the computing centre.
1992	Nowadays, I am told, in Germany most doctoral students in history make use of , not just for word processing, at some stage of their studies.
1992	In archaeology, I understand, it can now be said that are automatically considered for any project, however small.
1992	The lowest, most general, and most unambiguously useful level consists in the employment of a to perform a humdrum task in less time than would be possible for an unaided human: the search through a text for a quotation, the determination of a word frequency, the construction and analysis of a contingency table, the classification of iconic data.
1992	Where, in fact, are we to look for the major effects of the use of in humanities research?
1992	The high hopes which some enthusiasts held out that the would revolutionise humanistic study have been proved, over and over again, to be unrealistic.
1992	Sometimes the initial claims made were much exaggerated: as the claim made in New Testament studies that the would for the first time reveal the true lineaments of the Bible that we had ignorantly worshipped.
1992	Between humdrum research and showpiece research, what the humanities scholarly community is really anxious to see is work which is both (a) respected as an original scholarly contribution within its own discipline and (b) could clearly not have been done without a .
1992	This suspicion is particularly strong among biblical scholars, and one of them, Principal T.M. Knox, said more than twenty years ago ‘The spirit moveth where it listeth and is not to be reduced to the numerical terms with which alone a can cope’.
1992	Since long before the invention of , students of literary texts have made extensive use of concordances.
1992	With the aid of a , concordances of many kinds can be made with comparatively little difficulty.
1992	Students of literature who used concordance packages on mainframes commonly asked the to produce for them a complete print-out of their chosen concordance, and then took it home to consult in the traditional manner, turning the pages of a sheaf of paper.
1992	Producing several hundred pages of hard copy with a desk-top and printer would be a long and tedious business.
1992	Concordances produced by may differ from traditional hand-made concordances in several ways.
1992	But the also facilitates one particular type of study of texts: the study of their quantifiable features by statistical methods.
1992	However, of the studies I have mentioned it would be difficult to claim that more than a handful fulfilled the criteria I mentioned earlier: both (a) respected as an original scholarly contribution within its own discipline and (b) could clearly not have been done without a .
1992	The feeling of disillusion is indeed partly the result of the misplaced optimism and exaggerated claims of some of the pioneers: the belief was sometimes encouraged in the past that feeding data into a would automatically solve a scholar's problems.
1992	Rare has been the project which did not, in the course of execution, bring to light an initial overestimation of the technical possibilities, and an underestimation of the problems of data preparation.
1992	The proliferation of personal in the last decade has often, embarrassingly, gone with an actual diminution in methodological sophistication.
1992	If the fruits of computing in the humanities are less abundant than one might have hoped, there are also disadvantages of the introduction of which are becoming all too obvious.
1992	Because there is pressure on departments in humanistic subjects to appear up to date and efficient, it is much easier to persuade funding bodies to give money for and software than to buy manuscripts, rare books, or second and third copies of frequently used library texts.
1992	Professor Connor, in a fascinating paper on in classical studies, claims that came just at the wrong time, at a time when scholar's interests were moving from textual studies to critical theory, women's studies and the like.
1992	He says: ‘technology became available precisely at the wrong moment in the profession's development.
1992	There are still, thank God, a few areas where one can work without either having to use or feeling guilty because one does not.
1992	The first is that it is important never to lose sight of the fact that a is an assistant to, not a substitute for, a human researcher.
1992	Neglect of this obvious truth led to programs (say, for language analysis) being regarded as failures if they could not record 100% success.
1992	The third lesson is that it will not be possible for humanists to take full stock of what the has to offer to their disciplines until the study of statistics becomes a normal and inescapable part of the training of those who plan an academic career in the humanities.
1992	One of the unquestionable advantages of the growing use of by humanists is that it has done something to bridge the divide between two cultures — scientific and humanist — which many writers have lamented as threatening to fragment the community of scholars and the republic of learning.
1992	A by-product of the revolution has been an increased understanding by scientists and humanists of each others' methods and preoccupations.
1992	Surprisingly, in the last decades is that literary studies, perhaps especially classical studies, which may seem to be at the other extreme of the academic spectrum from the sciences, have shown themselves more self confident in the use of than history has done, even though history is closer to the social sciences which have for long been acclimatized to quantification and computerization.
1992	Will it be seen, with hindsight, that the introduction of the into the humanities disciplines has made no more substantial change in the eventual output of research than was made by the introduction of the electric typewriter?
1992	Or will there be a flowering of research papers, neither pedestrian nor spectacular, containing solid and original results obtained by techniques for which the is indispensable?
1992	But the testing time has now arrived; because for the first time posts of leadership in humanities departments are being taken up by a generation of scholars who have been familiar with the from their earliest schooldays, scholars who are neither frightened by, nor over-respectful of, the new powers which the has brought.
1992	Ledger, Gerard R. Re-Counting Plato: A Analysis of Plato; s Style, Oxford, 1989.
1989	LEFT and other electronic devices are now essential tools in archaeology for handling the vast amounts of data that fieldwork produces.
1989	Nowadays, most maps are made by plotting features from vertical aerial photographs, using to correct the distortion in the photographs.
1989	Nowadays, the results of nearly all such surveys are plotted by , which offers a wide range of diagrammatic methods to portray the results.
1989	With plotting, the same survey readings can be plotted in a variety of ways to extract the maximum amount of information from them.
1989	Many resistivity meters and magnetometers can now be fitted with a data recorder, which records the readings in computer-readable form so that the results can be fed directly into a as soon as the survey is finished.
1989	Experiments using portable at excavation sites, in order to enter the written record on to at that stage, have been tried.
1989	But normally the information on the recording forms is checked and corrected first and then entered on to after the excavation has been completed.
1989	BELOW The use of portable on an excavation may eventually replace the use of record sheets.
1989	RIGHT A bone specialist is sorting animal bones into groups and entering the data on to a for analysis.
1989	If the data has been put on , this quantification is easier.
1989	ABOVE are invaluable in many forms of finds analysis.
1989	A is being used here to record types of pottery.
1989	When all the data is entered on to the , it can then be sorted in numerous ways which would be too time-consuming using manual methods.
1989	The methods of excavation have to be extremely rigorous, and putting the finds into a dated sequence often relies heavily on individual judgement, although statistical techniques and are nowadays used to handle and control the data.
0000	Once the complaint is received by the SCB, it is logged onto the and allocated to a section.
1993	The process is taken to its limits by Epson's distinctive and witty campaign for printers.
1993	The effects may be visual or verbal, in sound or music; they may be obtained by trick photography, by the use of Quantel trickery, or by clever selection of elements of sound or picture: Ariston's use of a Nintendo-style soundtrack to achieve an (allegedly) hypnotic effect, a rash of commercials using operatic arias, the use of music by Hamlet cigars, Rutger Hauer in the Guinness campaign, the talking animals in the Electricity commercials.
1993	The tendency has been heightened and intensified by the advent of techniques derived from pop videos — a language with which agency creative people are very familiar, but which can be opaque to anyone over about 25 — and sophisticated graphics.
1993	We all now have personal , of increasing power and sophistication, on our desks, and there are already proprietary do-it-yourself econometrics and expert system kits available on the market.
1993	On the face of it, it is a business ripe for computerization, and, indeed, a great deal of work is done with to analyse media research data and make the construction of media schedules more effective.
1993	This can most readily be done with the aid of a , and if your agency does not have the facilities, several of the media owners and one or two bureaux have suitable programs available on a fee basis.
1993	Usually, the media planner attributes importance weightings to different demographic groups in the population, and the is asked to rank media or groups of media against them in order of cost per thousand.
1993	Most larger agencies now use one or other of several available systems to aid the whole planning and scheduling process, to print out orders, and to pass details to their traffic controllers.
1993	If you think of the variety of commercials you see on TV, there are many different things you can do in commercials: animation; live action, used in perhaps the majority of commercials; puppetry; mixed live action and animation; graphics and picture modification; a variety of special effects.
1993	The development of sophisticated techniques has added a whole new dimension to this ‘post-production’ stage of commercial-making.
1993	It is now possible to add or remove elements, and modify whole sections of the commercial, by means of systems such as‘Paintbox’— a system that contributed greatly to Peter Greenaway's feature film Prospero's Books — or ‘Harry’.
1993	BARB's product has recently been upgraded to take account of the changing marketplace and the increasing use of by agency media departments.
1993	But although they add information as to who is present, they still don't tell the what everybody is doing.
1990	If we were to start on a building of such magnitude — which we have not yet attempted — it is easy to imagine the army of architects and engineers, the volumes of plans, the batteries of , the regiments of construction machinery we would require.
1993	Bookshop systems will be the focus of a special feature in The Bookseller of 16th April.
1993	books
1993	The Bookseller will publish a special feature on new and forthcoming books in its issue of 26th March.
1992	You do not know that you are not a brain, suspended in a vat full of liquid in a laboratory, and wired to a which is feeding you your current experiences under the control of some ingenious technician/scientist (benevolent or malevolent according to taste).
1992	A man in a world,
1992	The kinds of activities which we had in mind were problem-solving and investigations, collaborative writing, reading and discussion about books and poems in pairs and groups, group picture or collage making, group construction tasks, group activities on the : the sorts of activities whose value is widely accepted and which might be included in the repertoire of any teacher, regardless of differences in overall teaching style.
1992	They later typed these up on the and made the story into a book.
1992	Children can present data in simple block graphs, pictograms or sets, or can enter it into a , using suitable software, to compile their own database.
1992	To him the term ‘multi-media’ suggests some vast and streamlined emporium of screens, projectors, TVs and sound systems all linked to operated by high powered technicians.
1992	While he discerns a bank of by the wall (one student is typing up minutes of the monthly group meeting now in progress), Michael begins to feel a little more at home in this rather ramshackle world.
1992	The result was a clear, useful, personalised word-board created on the , printed, laminated and attached to Henry by a spontaneously formed self-help group.
1992	In addition, there are many other disciplines — philosophy, psychology and psychiatry, sociology and anthropology, Artificial Intelligence, media studies, literary studies — which often examine their object of study — the mind, society, other cultures, , the media, works of literature — through language, and are thus carrying out their own discourse analysis, very often some of the best.
1992	A would have to be given knowledge about human eating habits before it could interpret this.
1992	The other thing to remember is that you can damage your discs by inserting them before switching the on, or for that matter by leaving them in while you switch it off.
1992	In recent years the role of knowledge in discourse production and comprehension has been significantly stimulated by findings in the field of Artificial Intelligence, which, among other endeavours, attempts to program to produce and understand discourse.
1992	Artificial Intelligence tries to understand how this knowledge and language interact, and to reproduce the process in .
1992	To program a to understand a discourse, Artificial Intelligence researchers need to reproduce this process, and to give both the necessary language knowledge, and the necessary schemata.
1992	The suggestion is that can be programmed to process discourse in a similar way to human beings, though the complexity of human language competence and human knowledge are far greater than those of any existing .
1992	They do not suddenly appear out of nowhere or on the pages of a language textbook — which has much the same effect — but in varying sizes and on varying materials: out of ticket machines, on screens, under windscreen wipers, on hoardings.
1993	Neural linkage, brain to brain and brain to , was old science, had been pushed to the limit in the years before mankind had reached out for the stars.
1993	Her smile turned into a feral grin as she glanced at her wrist .
1993	The speeder froze in mid-air for just a moment, while its coped with the sudden assault on the automatic systems.
1993	She told her wrist to give the speeder the settings for the shuttle hangar, and as the automatic pilot cut in she turned, intending to climb up to what was left of the weapons deck.
1993	‘Give it to a ,’ Bernice replied immediately.
1993	You could give a quite a headache with an NP-complete puzzle.’
1993	But there's enough left to discombobulate even the biggest of predictive .’
1993	‘I read somewhere that even if every atom in the universe could be made to function as a flipflop switch in a binary , it still wouldn't be big enough to follow all the possible routes that the universe could create.’
1993	To predict the universe, you'd need a many times bigger than the universe.’
1993	Leaning forward as far as she dared, with the great torso of the suit at a right angle to its legs, she made the claws  unhook her wrist and plug it into one of the empty sockets on the panel.
1993	Can't hurt to try, she thought, unjacking her with one claw while the other typed four letters.
1993	‘We're in the middle of an organic ,’ he said.
1993	The people died young, and their brains were transported by the androids here, to the station, where they were used to augment a living called Pool.
1993	She had never suspect that her opponent was a made of human brains, but the Field Agents of the OEO were recruited for their adaptability.
1993	An organic on this scale — remarkable.’
1993	The Doctor was striding round the centre of the room and giving a lecture, tripping over his words in his excitement as he expounded on the wonders of organic , the scale of Pool's achievement, the potential capabilities of Pool's data processing.
1993	‘Of course,’ the Doctor had said, and the memory of his voice was so real that she almost heard the words in her ears, ‘if anyone wanted to infiltrate the TARDIS with any kind of intelligence, from a virus to an entire , they'd only have to plug a cable into the socket under the console.
1986	The standpoint of Coburn's story was an extrapolation of machine intelligence, written at a time when were only just beginning to encroach into the commercial environment of Britain.
1988	It may be true for many services which are involved mainly with the transmission of information such as financial, legal and educational services, but for other services such as catering and food preparation, film production or services, I am not so sure.
1993	They have had to come to terms with print-outs, data sheets, the use of electronic equipment, and biological sampling techniques.
1993	They want figures for and…information to put on the , and this, that, and the other.’
1993	They must now recognize that laboratories need a steady flow of samples, and are increasingly relied upon for storage and handling of sample data.
1993	Sample results can be portrayed as the outcome of laboratory analysis with all that that implies about accuracy, validity, and reliability, an impression doubtless enhanced by the use of print-out and the provision of results to one or more decimal places (cf.
1990	Notions such as quantum leap, entropy, feedback and software spread far beyond their original habitats; indeed, whole languages and ways of seeing the world spread out and colonize other fields, in the way that experimental method, rational planning models, and terminology have done.
1990	Although Computing Science (or Science) as a field has changed dramatically in the last ten years and will continue to do so in the next ten, I do not believe its boundaries have altered significantly.
1990	The applications of to other subjects have resulted in a significant commitment to computing in those subjects, but the subject of Science itself remains at the centre: ‘systematic approaches to the development of based systems (hardware and software)’.
1990	There has been a further growth in the importance of information technology, to the state where entire curricula have been revised on the assumption that  students coming up from school can programme quite complex within their first year.
1990	Shift from taxonomic, structural approach to a functional, quantitative approach involving an appreciation of statistics and increasing literacy, i.e. of a shift from the culture of a ‘knowledge of the cranial nerves of dogfish’ to a knowledge of the growth, dynamics and exploitation of fish stocks.
1990	There may even be a danger that CAD (Aided Design) for example may largely replace ‘practice’.
1990	Many companies want to employ specialists (e.g. statisticians, experts).
1990	(Science)
1991	Franklin Electronic Publishers (formerly Franklin ) effectively created the product category with their Spelling Ace which appeared in 1986 and has since sold over three million units worldwide.
1991	Today they have about 27,000 US outlets including department stores, drug stores, stores, airport shops and a few bookshops.
1991	They do not as yet allow the use of international standard cartridges such as those conforming to the specifications of the PCMCIA (Personal Memory Card Industry Association) but SelecTronics will be offering their own proprietary cartridges enabling customers to use the SelecTronics' Bible and Encyclopaedia as ‘readers’ for other information products.
1991	Words Dictionary of terms (Y9,700)
1991	Instead, it can be connected to a NEC 9800 personal .
1991	Ultimately perhaps we are moving towards the concept of a single, personal, palmtop information centre, part electronic book, part , part global communications centre.
1990	I know somebody here who got very good marks for his lab work and he's good on , and he just programmed the in random errors and stuff that give him set results and nice graphs, and they weren't perfect so nobody noticed them, but he fiddled them, and that way he didn't have to do any lab work if he didn't want to.
1992	Such transformational changes include moving from low-technology to high-technology manufacturing systems, implementing and telecommunications, and redesigning the customer interface (for example, by providing salespeople with lap so that they can interact directly with both customers and suppliers).
1992	So far most users still use the new technology only to do faster what they have always done before, crunch conventional numbers.
1992	We can readily see the first steps in this transformation process when  we consider the impact of technology on capital-investment decisions.
1992	This argument is illustrated by the experience of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) in manufacturing plants in America and Scotland, with applications of ‘high-performance work systems’.
1992	Digital Equipment Corporation was, in dollar revenues, one of the world's three largest manufacturers, and was the largest manufacturer of minicomputers.
1992	As systems became more reliable and easier for customers to set up and configure for themselves, the traditional final assembly and test operation became redundant.
1992	In 1984 the (Scottish) management team at Ayr secured the charter to manufacture in volume small ‘micro PDP 11’ systems for the European business market, with an extra £4 million investment in the site.
1992	The unit cost of most modern systems like these comprised about 80% materials, 15% overheads and 5% labour.
1991	The company had wanted him to transfer to London, in order to resume the studies he had been taking at school.
1991	Nigel, by opting out of the course, had already made his compromise with ambitious dreams.
1993	Phones were ringing, screens were displaying information, and still there was nothing to go on.
1989	In Britain, aside from the Ministry of Defence, which is the largest purchaser in central government, the most significant purchasers are as follows: the Department of Transport, spending about £1 billion a year; Her Majesty's Stationary Office, which spends about £250 million a year; the Property Services Agency, servicing public buildings and other property, spends about £1.8 billion a year; the Central and Telecommunications Agency, responsible for all central government information technology advice, organizes everything from multi-million pound systems to peripheral services, such as micro-computers, service and maintainance; the National Health Service spends nearly £3.5 billion annually on a wide range of supplies and services through the NHS authorities; and, finally, local authorities buy a very wide range of goods and services.
0000	Fifteen years later, when everyone believed that were designed for advanced scientific work, business unexpectedly showed an interest in a machine that could do payroll.
0000	But IBM immediately realized it faced a possible unexpected success, redesigned what was basically Univac's machine for such mundane applications as payroll, and within five years became the leader in the industry, a position it has maintained to this day.
0000	It took less than two years for the to change from being perceived as a threat and as something only big businesses would use to something one buys for doing income tax.
0000	The , to cite another example, required no fewer than six separate strands of knowledge: binary arithmetic; Charles Babbage's conception of a calculating machine in the first half of the nineteenth century; the punch card, invented by Herman Hollerith for the US census of 1890; the audion tube, an electronic switch invented in 1906; symbolic logic, which was created between 1910 and 1913 by Bertrand Russell and Alfred  North Whitehead; and the concepts of programming and feedback that came out of abortive attempts during World War I to develop effective anti-aircraft guns.
0000	Although all the necessary knowledge was available by 1918, the first operational did not appear until 1946.
0000	We build our description on a survey of biographical and autobiographical publications of a number of well-known leaders generally thought to be visionary, including Lee Iacocca of Chrysler, Jan Carlzon of SAS, Edwin Land of Polaroid, René Lévesque of the Parti Quebécois, and Steven Jobs, formerly of Apple .
0000	He described his co-workers as ‘the people who would have been poets in the sixties and they're looking at as their medium of expression rather than language’(Jobs, 1984: 18).
0000	On the Apple Company itself, Jobs said: ‘There's something going on here…something that is changing the world and this is the epicenter’(Jobs, 1984: 18).
0000	As Steve Wozniak, the co-founder with Jobs of the Apple Company, tersely noted: ‘he can always couch things in the right words’(Patterson, 1985).
0000	A woman change master at a company began an important project this way.
0000	For this reason, top management at one company is more likely to provide large allocations for ideas that come with a coalition already formed around them.
0000	The development of a new at Data General illustrates the process of team building.
0000	The book is Tracy Kidder's The Soul of a New Machine , a 1981 tale of how a team — a crew — of hardworking inventors built a by pooling their efforts.
0000	Steven Jobs built his own company from scratch and became a multimillionaire before his thirtieth birthday.
0000	Consider just a few of the evolutionary paths that collective entrepreneurship can take: vacuum-tube radios become transistorized radios, then stereo pocket radios audible through earphones, then compact discs and compact disc players, and then optical-disc memories.
0000	Producing cars also involves making flexible robots for assembling parts and linking them by ; steady improvements in these technologies, in turn, lead to expert production systems that can be applied anywhere.
0000	Any job that could be fully prepared for in advance is, by definition, a job that could be exported to a low-wage country or programmed into robots and ; a routine job is a job destined to disappear.
0000	When workers add value through judgment and knowledge, become tools that expand their discretion.
0000	As to formal written reports, in our sample firms we also saw efforts to reduce the number of them, and to facilitate their production — for instance, by substituting programs for manual information collection and transmittal.
0000	Shared information is the foundation of participation in decisions, yet as the number of people to be co-ordinated rises, the number of potential communication links, be they by , telephone, paper or in person rises dramatically.
0000	If we look at the development of over the past 30 years we see accelerated change of a phenomenal nature.
0000	From its first operation in the 1920s, the only reached commercial feasibility and success in 1964.
0000	Similarly, the transistor took decades to become incorporated into commercial products such as hearing aids, navigational instruments and .
0000	Since 1953 the United States has been subjected to rapidly reduced lead time on innovation, from several years' lead time in the 1950s and 1960s to zero and lag time in the 1980s.
0000	High technologies Electronics, , communication equipment, fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals, office equipment.
0000	For example, at IBM in the Installed User Programs (IUP) Department, 30 per cent of IBM leased software for large and medium is developed by users.
1993	Cmnd. 9058 estimated that the cost of implementation over the first two years would be some £35 million, which would cover staff costs, hardware and software, and consultancy.
1988	Was there, could there be, a that could work out these things?
1988	She must ask Otto Werner of this one day: Otto had a new passion for , and loved to speculate on their possibilities.
1988	What , what analysis, could ever retrieve it?
1985	Telecommunication links provide a type of ‘mobility’ that is becoming more and more important in terms of business and leisure contacts as telephone ownership and possession of home television links grow.
1985	The increasing range of new and improved telecommunications services can have potentially profound effects on future travel and home-based employment opportunities, because certain types of jobs do not need face-to-face contact and may be carried out from home by the linking of the telephone to home or the use of other teleconferencing, text-handling or information-retrieval systems.
1985	Much regular ordering by retailers or other rural service points can be done by telephone or other systems based on remote linkages and improved ‘information technology’.
1990	In the graphics of Tron (1982) we are right down on the board with the players  of video games, even if we don't quite share their viewpoint; the motorcycle shots, much quoted, show how exhilarating rapid movement along wholly imaginary perspectives can be.
1990	The has rendered the hands-on animation that created the monsters in this and previous Ray Harryhausen films as outdated, however charming in its way, as the original King Kong (1933; effects: Willis J O'Brien), without the mythic power which keeps that minor masterpiece mysteriously fresh.
1990	The purpose of filming through oily smoke was to give texture, and cameras were motion controlled by .
1990	It  was certainly overt in Dr Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964), with its surrealistic emphasis on machinery (a Coke machine, a wheelchair, telephones, radios, , aeroplanes, bombs), culminating in the semi-mechanical yet sex-obsessed figure of Dr Strangelove (Peter Sellers) himself, whose rebellious mechanical arm keeps rising in a gesture at once phallic and fascist.
1990	So the rather heavy, stately movements of 2001: A Space Odyssey to which the effects team of Kubrick himself, Wally Veevers, Douglas Trumbull, Con Pederson and Tom Howard were for the most part limited — except in the ‘Stargate’ section — by their simple, mechanical system (no electronics, no for motion control or graphics) were apt enough and perhaps fast enough.
1990	All these movements, initially hands-on though the control system, were stored on memory and therefore exactly repeatable.
1990	Though this sounds cumbersome by comparison with modern graphics (which is what these effects appear to resemble today), it was also quite flexible.
1990	It was certainly slow, but then somehow nowadays can take months to turn out a few seconds of screen time.
1990	In the late 1960s it was considered impossible to generate imagery at a high enough resolution to project onto a Cinerama screen — the electronic equivalent of ‘grain' would have been unacceptably coarse and spotty.
1990	There are miles of imagery in 2010 to fill the video screens on the Leonov , then taken for granted, though it involved much work and Sony technology.
1990	This work was subcontracted by EEG to John Whitney Jr and his Digital Productions — John Whitney Sr was a pioneer of animation whose abstract films inspired Con Pederson and Douglas Trumbull to try slit-scan.
1990	Lacking the elaborate Go-motion system of rods and control that Tippett had devised at ILM for the dragon in Dragonslayer (1981), intended to create a slight blur as each single-frame shot was made (since in real motion the subject moves fractionally in the one-fiftieth of a second for which one frame is exposed), they simply shook the puppet a bit each time.
1990	Ash (Ian Holm)— a well-disguised robot — is in league with the ship's , ‘Mother’(voice: Helen Horton), to preserve the Alien as a specimen at the sacrifice of the humans.
1990	There are more than 200,000 cubic millimetres of neocortex, and every cubic millimetre contains at least 50,000 neurons with 500 million synapses; these figures may give you some idea of the complexity of the we have in our heads.
1990	scientists appreciate the power of what are called ‘generalised Hough transforms’, but so far only weak hints of such operations have been found neurophysiologically.
1990	But we can at least test the logic in simulations.
1990	We may eventually be able to check whether the verbal arguments for the Darwinian evolution of language can be simulated on a .
1992	‘Expression’ is a broad concept which can encompass not only literary or written works but musical compositions, songs, drawings, games, autobiographies, poetry and the like.
1993	In 1988, she wrote The Book of Spells , urging that: ‘Knowing how to cast spells is a technique everyone ought to have, along with technology.’
1992	A hugely diverse number of organizations were represented — local government, charities, mostly hi-tech and business (IBM for one).
1992	A Packard Bell desktop 386 complete with hard disk, two floppy drives and software, £666.
1992	Proof of Richards's analysis comes from a quick glance at the brochures of two London-area superstores: an IBM PS/1 Family Pack 286 desktop sells at the new Business Superstore (on the A40, in Park Royal, northwest London) for £699 plus VAT.
1992	At the new PC World superstore (Croydon and Thurrock, Essex), they sell the classier 386 model of the PS/1 for £899 (Dixons's price: £1021.27).
1992	‘Historically, people have looked to Europe as a place to make up the profit margins they had to give away in the States,’ Apple spokesperson Frank O'Mahoney admitted to me immediately before launching into a lengthy explanation of how prices in Europe are now tumbling to less obscene levels.
1992	With troubled giants IBM and Compaq leading the way, the world's makers decided late last year to inject some competitiveness into the European market, hastened by the growth of direct-mail sales.
1992	There's free Faxe lager from Finland and prizes to be won — golf lessons at Silvermere, a pair of tickets to the Wentworth World Match Play and a chance to play the Jack Nicklaus Signature Edition game.
1993	Many Japanese national universities will also benefit by getting much-needed Local Area Networks (LANs) to link on-campus .
1993	The for the National Cancer Center will form the central database for an online national network of imaging data on cancer patients.
1993	The LDP and science-related ministries and agencies are now trying to ensure that next year's budget includes provision for items such as a high-capacity national backbone network for linking in government institutes and universities.
1993	Otherwise, Nero will play at the while forests burn, and sentiment rather than science will decide the issue.
1993	Such a collapse had been hinted at in molecular dynamics simulations.
1993	An introduction by Heims outlines Wiener's own experience as inventor of noise filters, an analogue and an electrical network concept.
0000	Atlantic Systems Plc., In re [1992]2 W.L.R. 367;[1992]1 All E.R.
0000	In In re Atlantic Systems Plc.
0000	In 1988 the second plaintiff company, then in the control of the first and second defendants, entered into a contract with a health authority for the supply of services.
0000	By a contract made as from 1 April 1988 Wessex Regional Health Authority (‘Wessex’) engaged the second plaintiff company (‘Abbey’) to provide services.
0000	The alleged swindle took the form of charging Wessex for services which had not been rendered and double charging for services which had been rendered by a multiplication of invoices and false entries.
0000	Crime — misuse — Unauthorised access — Person using one to obtain from it unauthorised benefit — Whether unauthorised use of single within statute —‘Access to any program or data held in any ’— Misuse Act 1990 (c. 18), ss. 1(1), 2(1)
0000	The respondent, without authority, keyed commands into a and thereby obtained by means of the same a discount, to which he was not entitled, on goods being purchased at a supplier.
0000	He was tried on, inter alia, a count charging an offence contrary to section 2(1) of the Misuse Act 1990by securing unauthorised access to a , in contravention of section 1(1) of the Act of 1990, with intent to commit a further offence of false accounting.
0000	On a submission of no case to answer the trial judge ruled that, on a true construction of section 1(1) (a ) of the Act of 1990, a second had to be involved, so that section 2(1) was inapplicable to the facts, and he upheld the submission.
0000	The Attorney-General referred to the Court of Appeal under section 36 of the Criminal Justice Act 1972 the question whether, in order for a person to commit an offence under section 1(1) of the Act of 1990 the which the person caused to perform any function with the required intent had to be a different from the one into which he intended to secure unauthorised access to any program or data held therein.
0000	Held , that, in the opinion of the court, in section 1(1) (a ) of the Act of 1990 the words ‘causes a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any ,’ in their plain and ordinary meaning, were not confined to the use of one with intent to secure access into another ; so that section 1(1) was contravened where a person caused a to perform a function with intent to secure unauthorised access to any program or data held in the same (post, pp. 437A–B, C–D, 438A, E–F).
0000	‘The point of law referred for consideration by the court is: in order for a person to commit an offence under section 1(1) of the Misuse Act 1990 does the which the person causes to perform any function with the required intent have to be a different to the one into which he intends to secure unauthorised access to any program or data held there?
0000	discount on goods being purchased at a supplier, by dishonestly operating a used by the sales staff and entering a false discount.
0000	He was experienced in operating the used by assistants when making sales to customers.
0000	Mr. S. was instructed to transact the sale as normal and accordingly began to enter the sale on the .
0000	The respondent took this opportunity to add an entry on the which gave a 70 per cent.
0000	In interview, he denied having interfered with the .
0000	He maintained that Mr. S. was responsible for the operation of the and producing an invoice with the discount recorded upon it.
0000	Statement of Offence:Securing unauthorised access to a with intent to commit a further offence, contrary to section 2(1) of the Misuse Act 1990.
0000	‘Particulars of Offence [The respondent]on 17 September 1990 secured unauthorised access to a in contravention of section 1(1) of the Misuse Act 1990 with intent to commit a further offence, namely, false accounting contrary to section 17(1) (a ) of the Theft Act 1968.
0000	‘Particulars of Offence:[The respondent]on 17 September 1990 dishonestly and with a view to gain for himself or another, or with intent to cause loss to another, falsified a document required for an accounting purpose, namely, a generated sales invoice, by making an entry therein which was or may have been misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular in that it purported to show that a discount of 70 per cent.
0000	(iii) In respect of count 1 it was submitted that section 2(1) did not apply to the facts of this case; in particular it was submitted that in order to contravene section 1(1) and therefore in turn section 2(1) it was necessary to establish that the offender had used one with intent to secure unauthorised access into another .
0000	The judge held: ‘It seems to me, doing the best that I can in elucidating the meaning of section 1(1) (a ), that a second must be involved.
0000	It seems to me to be straining language to say that only one is necessary when one looks to see the actual wording of the subsection: ‘Causing a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any .’’
0000	‘It is submitted:(i) the judge erred in law in his ruling on count 1;(ii) for an offence to be committed under section 1(1) of the Act there does not have to be the use by the offender of one with intent to secure unauthorised access into another ;(iii) there is no ambiguity in the wording of section 1(1) (a ) of the Act which clearly refers to an intent to secure access to any program or data held in any ;(iv) section 17(2) and (3) are applicable to the alleged actions of the respondent in this case;(v) the Act has been drafted so as to deal with the person who misuses a to which he has direct (but unauthorised) access, as well as a into which he is able to secure indirect access by operating another .’
0000	‘In order for a person to commit an offence under section 1(1) of the Misuse Act 1990 does the which the person causes to perform any function with the required intent have to be a different from the one into which he intends to secure unauthorised access to any program or data held therein?
0000	discount on goods being purchased from a supplier by dishonestly operating a used by the sales staff and by entering a false discount.
0000	In that role he was experienced in operating the used by sales assistants when making sales to customers.
0000	Mr. S. was instructed to transact the sale in the normal way and accordingly he began to enter the sale on the .
0000	In his absence the respondent took the opportunity to add an entry on the , which gave 70 per cent.
0000	In the result when Mr. S. came back and resumed his use of the , the invoice it printed out charged the sum of £204.76 plus VAT, instead of the proper sum of £710.96 plus VAT.
0000	In interview he denied having interfered with the .
0000	He maintained that Mr. S. was responsible for the operation of the and for producing an invoice with that discount recorded upon it.
0000	[His Lordship set out the indictment, ante, pp. 433F — 434A, and continued:]It is necessary to refer to the terms of the relevant sections of the Misuse Act 1990.
0000	‘A person is guilty of an offence if —(a ) he causes a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any ;(b ) the access he intends to secure is unauthorised; and (c ) he knows at the time when he causes the to perform the function that that is the case.
0000	It is headed ‘Unauthorised modification of material,’ and provides:
0000	‘(1) A person is guilty of an offence if —(a ) he does any act which causes an unauthorised modification of the contents of any ; and (b ) at the time when he does the act he has the requisite intent and the requisite knowledge.
0000	(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b ) above the requisite intent is an intent to cause a modification of the contents of any and by so doing —(a ) to impair the operation of any ;(b ) to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any ; or (c ) to impair the operation of any such program or the reliability of any such data.
0000	‘(2) A person secures access to any program or data held in a if by causing a to perform any function he —(a ) alters or erases the program or data;(b ) copies or moves it to any storage medium other than that in which it is held or to a different location in the storage medium in which it is held;(c ) uses it; or (d ) has it output from the in which it is held (whether by having it displayed or in any other manner); and references to access to a program or data (and to an intent to secure such access) shall be read accordingly.
0000	(3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(c ) above a person uses a program if the function he causes the to perform —(a ) causes the program to be executed; or (b ) is itself a function of the program.
0000	…(7) A modification of the contents of any takes place if, by the operation of any function of the concerned or any other —(a ) any program or data held in the concerned is altered or erased; or (b ) any program or data is added to its contents; and any act which contributes towards causing such a modification shall be regarded as causing it.…
0000	In respect of count 1 it was submitted that section 2(1) did not apply to the facts of this case and it was particularly submitted that in order to contravene section 1(1), and therefore in turn section 2(1), it was necessary to establish that the offender had used one with intent to secure unauthorised access into another .
0000	‘It seems to me, doing the best that I can in elucidating the meaning of section 1(1) (a ), that a second must be involved.
0000	It seems to me to be straining language to say that only one is necessary when one looks to see the actual wording of the subsection; ‘causing a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any .’
0000	It is submitted by Mr. Moses that, for an offence to be committed under section 1(1) of the Act, there does not have to be use by the offender of one with intent to secure unauthorised access into another .
0000	The vital phrase is ‘any ’ at the end of section 1(1) (a ) and the Act has been drafted, it is submitted, so as to deal with someone who misuses a , whether he accesses it indirectly by using another , perhaps in other premises, or whether he accesses it directly, as happened in the present case.
0000	It may be that the major mischief at which the Act was directed was the mischief which has become endemic of persons using one to hack into another .
0000	But, submits Mr. Moses, the scope of the section is not confined to that form of access to any .
0000	They are, ‘he causes a to perform any function with intent to secure access to any program or data held in any .’
0000	Mr. Lassman argued successfully before the judge, and sought to argue before this court, that that final phrase, ‘held in any ,’ should really be read as ‘held in any other ,’or alternatively should be read as ‘held in any except the which has performed the function.’
0000	In our judgment there are no grounds whatsoever for implying, or importing the word ‘other’ between ‘any’and ‘,’or excepting the which is actually used by the offender from the phrase ‘any ’at the end of the subsection (1)(a ).
0000	Mr. Lassman sought to suggest that this offence was aimed solely at hacking, and hacking, which is a word that finds no place in the Act, he says, means using one to access another.
0000	However, if one looks at section 3 it is — we do not need to decide the point — at least doubtful whether it would apply to the circumstances of the present case, because the requisite intent which has to be present before section 3 is breached is the intent under subsection (2) of section 3, ‘(a ) to impair the operation of any ’— that clearly does not apply to what the respondent did here —‘(b ) to prevent or hinder access to any program or data held in any ’— that again clearly does not apply to what the respondent did here — and ‘(c ) to impair the operation of any such program’— that does not apply here.
0000	That would involve giving the word ‘reliability’ the meaning of achieving the result in the printout which was intended by the owner of the .
0000	It may not necessarily impair the reliability of data in the that you feed in something which will produce a result more favourable to a customer than the store holder intended.
0000	In support of that Mr. Moses pointed to the surprising, and indeed unlikely, lacunae which this Act would have left in the field of interference with if the construction for which Mr. Lassman contends were correct.
0000	He pointed out that there would be nothing in the Act to meet what is itself a mischief frequently encountered today, namely, industrial espionage or obtaining information as to security details or other confidential information which may be stored on a company's .
0000	In none of those cases could it be said that, if one entered the premises and caused a to exercise a function so as to reveal information, there had been access via one into another.
0000	Accordingly, if Mr. Lassman is correct, that kind of activity of going straight to the in-house and extracting confidential information from it could be committed with impunity so far as the three offences in this Act are concerned.
0000	There was a system at the police station for recording the times of telephone calls: the time of the call was logged at 1.16 a.m.
0000	It would have taken a minute or so to operate the .
0000	The operator in the station made another call to the ambulance service telling them that the situation was very serious and asking for the estimated time of arrival of the ambulance.
0000	299, C.A. and Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180, H.L. (E.) considered.
0000	Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180;[1983]2 W.L.R. 679;[1983]1 All E.R.
0000	Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180;[1983]2 W.L.R. 679;[1983]1 All E.R.
0000	In Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180, 190, Lord Diplock said:
0000	By a notice of appeal dated 13 August 1991 the applicant appealed against that decision of the Divisional Court on the grounds, inter alia, that it had erred (1) in holding that there was no obligation on Lautro to give the applicant an opportunity to make representations prior to the issue of that notice;(2) in asserting that there was a principle of law that a regulatory body should know with precision from whom they must invite representations;(3) in perceiving any difficulty in identifying persons who should have been given advance notification, so as to be treated fairly, of any proposals by Lautro to issue a notice since such notification should at least be given to anyone who would be directly affected by such a notice and/or whose conduct was in issue;(4) in regarding as apposite the remarks of Lord Diplock in Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180, 190A since the non-application of the legal concept of natural justice to all persons effected by but not parties to a dispute was not and had never been in issue; and (5) in failing to have regard to the absence of any rights of appeal according to the rules of Lautro in deciding whether the principle of natural justice applied.
0000	In Cheall v. Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff [1983]2 A.C. 180, 190, Lord Diplock said: ‘Decisions that resolve disputes between the parties to them, whether by litigation or some other adversarial dispute-resolving process, often have consequences which affect persons who are not parties to the dispute; but the legal concept of natural justice has never been extended to give such persons as well as the parties themselves rights to be heard by the decision-making tribunal before the decision is reached.’
0000	Disenchantement with the policy of that union led him to resign from it and to join another union, Association of Professional Executive Clerical and Staff (‘A.P.E.X.’)
0000	(‘B. & C.’), acquired all the issued share capital in Atlantic Plc.
0000	(‘Atlantic’), the holding company of a group of companies engaged worldwide in the financing of leasing, for a consideration of approximately £420m.
1986	It is at this stage that a major study may be undertaken into the integrity of the proposed design, in terms of function, strength, economics, etc.
1986	Aided Design and Manufacture (CAD and CAM) This formal separation between design and production is seen by many as the separation also between CAD and CAM.
1986	Within this secondary category are grouped all the engineering analysis activities normally performed using .
1986	Many such programs have been developed over the years to exploit the 's ability to retrieve and/or manipulate large quantities of  data.
1986	However, much analysis and design work can be performed on an existing turnkey system by making use of its large graphics capabilities to generate the models, but with only a limited amount of "on board" numerical manipulation.
1986	The analysis (usually mainframe) may not be compatible with their turnkey drafting machines.
1986	Despite the widespread use of in many areas of work, there is unfortunately a significant degree of misunderstanding concerning them.
1986	This ranges from the belief that (rather than the programmers and/or users) are the sole cause of any mistake, to one that are infallible and are capable of undertaking virtually any task.
1986	The result of this can be either excessive user resistance to any type of , or total acceptance of all output from the without questioning the premises of the program.
1986	It is important that the capabilities of the be recognized and used to aid the designer in his tasks.
1986	It is equally important that the human capabilities be recognized and used where a is not so suitable.
1986	Eaglesham stated that "…even in a computer-driven design system, the assists (but does not supplant) the designer, who continues to take the final responsibility."
1986	Thus man and may be seen as having interdependent but complementary skills.
1986	At his first approach to man-machine conversation, the system analyst often tends to think of the man as originating each part: the man says something to the and the replies.
1986	Frequently, however, the other possibility gives the better design: the originates each interchange and the man responds.
1986	The question of whether operator-initiated or initiated communication resulted in better design was one aspect of CAD systems investigated in a set of experiments.
1986	Simulation, interactive design and decision design are all names for a technique requiring the user to interact directly with the .
1986	A comparison of these three types of CAD techniques (optimal, simulation modular and simulation linear) was thus made, with a view to developing a greater understanding of the means by which the may be applied as an aid to design.
1986	Sixty-eight trainee engineers, with varying degrees of expertise, participated in the experiment.
1985	One of the simplest sets of stimuli used in dichotic listening experiments consists of natural or generated pairs of syllables, such as /pa/ and /da/.
1985	As these changes in electrical potential may be very small in relation to fluctuations in ongoing EEG activity the usual procedure is to use a to sum the potentials during the half-second or so following each presentation of the evoking stimulus so as to produce an average value.
1985	The principle here is that if particular changes in activity bear a constant relationship to the reference event they will show up against fluctuations of the ongoing EEG which, being "random" , should cancel out to zero when averaged over successive trials by the .
1985	Subjects were presented with a controlled tone in one ear and had to match this tone through movements of the tongue which were transduced so as to produce a sound which was relayed to the other ear.
1988	24 The timing machine above is part of a or calculating box.
1988	I lunged for the which contained my first four hard-laboured chapters, and it literally burst into flames at my touch.
1989	Old printout is another possible source.
1989	The human brain works at the speed of a or faster, but some milliseconds are needed for thought.
1988	We look briefly at the phenomenon of "temping" by Secretarial/office staff in the South East of England, before concentrating in some detail on the particular case of contract staff.
1988	However, a study commissioned by FRES, the primary objective of which was to give support to these claims, made very clear that for certain categories of worker, particularly secretarial/keyboard staff in central London and staff, agency supplied labour was more expensive (Rothwell/Mingard, 1985).
1988	Contract staff
1988	We have already referred to the "bottom line" calculations made by people working alongside agency "temps" ; these were continually mentioned by users and suppliers of contract staff too.
1988	If there are the same pressures contributing to the use of contract staff as for agency secretarial/office staff, the two groups are in other ways very different.
1988	Most placements of agency secretarial/office staff are for a period as short as two weeks or less, albeit subject to extension, but the assignments advertised for staff are of three months, or more often six months and sometimes one year or even two year duration, again subject to extension.
1988	The special characteristics of contract staff
1988	Finally, the manner of remuneration and, more important, the de jure employment status of contract staff tend to differ from agency secretarial/office staff.
1988	For staff this did not appear to be so.
1988	staff agencies might seek to maintain contractors' loyalty, but more by keeping them supplied with assignments than by offering them employee-like benefits.
1988	However, while an important proportion of agency-supplied staff are self-employed, only a few agency secretarial/office workers are.
1988	Moreover, most self-employed contract staff are self-employed not only in the sense of being responsible for their own tax and paying Class II (self-employed person's) social security contributions, but also in the sense of being one-man, limited companies.
1988	The nature of contract staff jobs imposes substantially heavier work-related expenses upon them than upon agency secretarial/office staff.
1988	They usually have their own personal , they need to subscribe to technical journals and pay for (relatively expensive) training and familiarisation courses in order to update their skills, their work tends to be spread over a wider geographical area and the need for a car is greater.
1988	In addition, contract staff often gain advice and assistance from the agencies through which they work on how to  proceed with incorporation, and are often encouraged by them to take this step.
1988	The fact that many contract staff incorporate themselves as one-man companies suggests that to describe them as temporary workers is in some ways misleading.
1988	The difference between a more conventional company and an incorporated contract programmer/analyst is merely that the former can and does respond simultaneously to a multiplicity of orders which partly overlap and partly succeed one another.
1988	Nevertheless, as was also suggested with respect to South Eastern secretarial/office staff, there is the opportunity for staff to make a (semi-) permanent career out of "temping" , and with the latter group this is made more explicit by the creation of the (semi) permanent entity of the company.
1988	If for many contract staff their employment is more permanent than temporary, it is also pertinent to ask whether it is more safe than precarious.
1988	Our impression is that almost all contract staff are voluntarily working on this basis.
1988	For these reasons, and not only because their place of work is constantly changing, hardly any contract staff are organised into trade unions.
1988	However, the ability of contract staff to dispense with trade unions to further their interests is enhanced by a number of additional factors.
1988	First, the population of contract staff is much smaller than that of agency secretarial/office workers and, insofar as there are fewer people working on this basis for a very short term or occasional basis, has a much higher stability of membership.
1988	Second, as well as being rather homogeneous with respect to age, contract staff share an exclusive body of technical knowledge and this, despite their individualism, promotes a sense of common identity.
1988	Since all of these channels permit information to circulate rapidly, contract staff are well equipped to protect themselves from becoming involved with, or exploited by, unscrupulous agencies or client organisations.
1988	If trade unions are to have any success in organising contract staff it might be by the provision of non-traditional membership services.
1988	Precisely these services might be attractive or useful to the one-man companies through which contract staff operate.
1988	Contract staff are also interesting because they differ from the traditional "temp" secretary.
1988	The nature of their jobs and the extent of work-related expenses means that incorporation has considerable material advantages for contract staff, as well as appealing to their sense of self-esteem as "professionals" .
1988	Finally, it seems that despite the absence of formal systems of regulation, contract staff are potentially well protected from the vagaries of unscrupulous clients or agencies.
1988	Whilst "non-standard" , agency working can scarcely be described as "precarious" for the majority of office/secretarial workers or for contract staff.
1988	We observed this  clearly in the Greater London and South-East England labour market for secretarial staff and in the South East England labour market for programmers and analysts.
1988	For tax and social security purposes most are treated as dependent employees, although a small number — mainly "professionals" such as accountants or programmers — formally register themselves as self-employed.
1990	If you liken the body to a for a moment, the can only function when it has the correct date and commands fed to it; otherwise it refuses to work or breaks down altogether.
1993	I've gotta liaise with the information centre in  the centre tomorrow  see if there's any guidelines we could probably use.
1993	also, Mark, need to able to bring out most of the people as well.
1993	Can we go onto design then?
1993	These recordings will then be transcribed onto and built into a database which will contain several million words.
1993	I've done various things on my today and I can successfully make ASCII files.
1993	Erm somebody on my behalf please, erm preferably Clare actually who has a ,
1993	it it it it it's it's it's also got a erm er It's got no mouse  for the .
1993	Wait until David's erm  researched getting a in York .
1993	And
1993	The fraud is becoming a big business, yeah?
1993	the C I D, they'll get a detective to come along and help investigate the crime, so we investigate the crimes like you did on your course, yeah?
1993	But I think even if you're familiar with generally and have good keyboard skills that's
1993	The tapes are erased afterwards what they do is somebody types it all up and erm then they build it all up on a .
1993	.
1993	That's quite a long one .
1993	Desk is one of them erm have you got any disks on your ?
1993	So we'll cut it all down so there's only about half of it that you need to learn okay and I'll print you a table out on the like that and then you can ask your mum to ask you them.
1993	She had a actually on the it was on the side of a surveying instrument, so she was probably working out how far down she'd actually dug by looking through the sights and reading the numbers and then she was entering up the numbers on the .
1992	Search in this space is easy on a small , and is even practical manually.
1992	Chemical engineering companies found that their very large complex expensive process plants could be controlled better by than by human operators.
1992	When engineers build the plant and install the control, they do not know the precise values of these coefficients; so they start the process running with approximate values, and write control programs which improve the values.
1992	In modern digital , it is cheaper to use large RAM chips with many address lines, but in a logical net, small RAM chips may work better.
1992	You can show how on a personal .
1992	The screen displays a few white dots, called’ protozoa’, and lots of purple dots called’bacteria’.
1992	The variants can be tested by simulations in a large , and the codes of successive variants can be optimised by genetic recombination and selection.
1992	In this sense, a’ name’may be nothing more than an address in a 's memory, such as a pointer in a Pascal data structure.
1992	are much less versatile.
1992	They are basic to the growing subject of computational linguistics, which aims to let talk and make sense of human language; but before that arose, they proved invaluable for languages like Basic, Pascal and Prolog.
1991	‘Welcome aboard, Captain,’ said the talking .
1991	‘Well, actually I wouldn't know — being just a .
1991	You have no idea how boring it is to be a .
1991	‘That sounds great coming from a p-r-o-g-r-a-m-m-e-d !’
1991	‘Oh, very well,’ replied the .
1991	‘That,’ said Dick mischievously, ‘was a 's attempt to imitate a chicken.’
1991	‘Good afternoon, Captain,’ replied the .
1991	‘That's better,’ said the .
1991	‘Can't,’ replied the .
1989	The Music Box system, as it was called, would consist of four central terminals, located in different parts of the country, on which would be stored every single and album ever released in Britain.
1989	Subscribers to the service required only a cable line, an amplifier, a pair of speakers and a pad, on which to tap out the number of their choice.
1989	Tait and his advertising agents hit on an idea for generic advertising, of filling the skies above New York with a message done by ‘skytyping’— a development of skywriting in which five light aircraft, working on synchronicity, puff dots into the sky to form letters sixty feet high.
1989	Operating problems with the reservations system had resulted in a backlog of 10,000 bookings needing to be rechecked, making it impossible to tell who had and had not paid for tickets.
1993	‘Everything takes twice as long now they got so much data on the .’
1993	They're no more than extensions of their machines, hands to do the 's will.
1993	Endless lessons jacked in to a without even the star-dance of meanings to cheer.
1993	Arranging strings of symbols in the tanks at the school, Chesarynth could not ignore her hurt.
1993	And surely they'd be able to replace all the training programs stored in the , all the memory-recordings….
1990	Similarly, the private sector, spurred on by advances in technology and by availability of detailed  local statistics from the Population Census, has developed sophisticated targeting procedures for advertising, marketing and product monitoring.
1993	I feel too tired to sleep so I play some Despot when I get home but my heart's not in it and the Empire is still in a tattered-looking state after all the earlier disasters and I'm almost wondering if I should start again but that would mean going back to the fucking dawn of civilisation and the temptation in Despot is always to swap PoV, which people who don't know the game always think sounds  sort of innocent, like some detail, but it isn't: you're not just swapping point of View, you're swapping your current Despotic power Level for something less, even if it's a regional lord or other king or a general or royal relation close to the throne, and it is not to be done lightly because as soon as you renounce the current Despot's PoV the takes over and it's a smart fucking piece of software.
1993	I'm in the dark hotel at the side of the black loch and it's close to midnight and I'm drunk but not stoned and so's Andy and his pal Howie and I'm sitting in the old ballroom on the lower ground floor, looking out over the waters to where grey ghostly moonlit mountains rise, tops glowing softly, capped with snow, and I'm playing games .
1993	It is illuminated only by the light shining from the stairwell and the desk lamp on the old trestle table which holds the .
1993	They ask me, Is that your writing? and it is of course it is those are Despot control codes from when the 's mouse was misbehaving and that's the way I always spell when I do a shopping list.
1993	They've taken some very carefully set-up photographs with a big fucking camera and I suspect — from an aside or two they probably didn't expect me to understand — that these snaps will be the basis for some manipulation to see how well I fit the bill.
1993	Rob Thomas still had Sophie's address from the junk-mail source on Alex's .
1993	Go to the for Hart: she's not there.
1991	I have not got space here to go into the sources of new pop theory — they include avant-garde art music, the new technological and processes of mixing and recording sound, art school flirtation with structuralist and post-structuralist theories of representation, punk flirtation with situationist theories of the spectacle — but their combined impact was to focus attention on popular music as a construction of sound and image.
1991	This is not the place to outline these in detail but, to put it simply, in the late 1970s the record industry faced a ‘crisis’(a stagnation in record sales after twenty years of expansion) brought on by two simultaneous developments: on the one hand, an economic recession which hit particularly hard the most important sector of the record buying market, working-class youth; on the other hand, technological developments in the leisure industry which meant either new sorts of competition for people's leisure resources (home and video recorders become as significant in young people's lives as record players, for instance) or disrupted record companies' profit-making routines (home taping thus became the industry's chief bogey).
1991	People would not die without games, the latest Sylvester Stallone movie or a bank holiday trip to Alton Towers, and ‘the leisure economy’ is thus dependent on essentially unstable, individual, market needs and choices.
1991	These include competition from the new entertainment media of video and games and the widespread practice of private copying or home taping.
1991	As far as internal operations were concerned costs had been reduced by the extensive installation of technology, particularly with respect to booking and internal control procedures.
1981	It is ironic to see the terms of this division being renegotiated as newer technology, such as typesetting, makes the technical division unnecessary or redundant.
1992	He does all his work by telephone and letter and .
1992	There were three telephones, a , and lots of books and papers.
1992	There was a smaller desk and another in there.
1992	‘Can you use a ?’
1989	This is particularly useful when manufacturers' software is available (as for example SEARCH ON KEY for IBM ) to carry out the search automatically.
1989	If the file is large the query may take some time to answer; meanwhile the is occupied processing unwanted records rather than doing useful work.
1989	This type of index is used in the Indexed Sequential Access Method (ISAM) that has been available on IBM mainframe systems since the late sixties, and is now available on some microcomputers.
1989	This method of indexing was used on the IBM 1400 series — the control sequential method — and is at present in use with ICL's 2900 series.
1989	IBM s control sequential file organization, used with the 1400 series , added link fields to the records shown above as 111 and 112.
1989	presented a ‘grid’ file that performs particularly well when the number of search attributes is ten or less, and offers a high data storage utilization, good growth characteristics and efficient processing of range queries; Stanfill and Kahle explain the principles of a parallel free-text search on a particular parallel , and claim a retrieval speed of 2 — 3 minutes for Boolean queries of 25 and 20000 terms respectively when the database in question takes up 15 Gbytes of storage space.
1993	‘At the ATC [adult training centre]there's a new that none of the trainees have been shown how to use.
1993	There are some we can use but there's one special one we can't use — it's just for the staff.’
1993	Telephones, photocopiers, word processors and are all there at our fingertips, allowing us to gain and share information.
1993	As one group member said: ‘What I'd like to see happening is this room set up with the and using it regularly to type up the notes from our meetings.’
1992	Present-day or digital organs incorporate new and complex technology, and this has led to some impressive developments.
1992	The final sound is determined by the skill of the manufacturer, the time given to programming the and the extent of its memory.
1992	These instruments offer a wide range and large numbers of stops, and some provide an extra selection by means of cards which are fed into a slot.
1992	Names can also be submitted to the police .
1992	A comprehensive syllabus would include performing, accompanying, improvising, composing, arranging and orchestrating, voice training, rehearsing, recording and the use of electronics (including and word processors), liturgy and theology, and communication and management skills.
1993	Sheldukher leapt for the linkage controls.
1993	The heat shields were still intact and the assured him that they would not crack or fall off on the journey through the atmosphere.
1993	The ship's aged sensor pods had provided the , and  thus the Cell, with a swift approximation of the state of play outside the ship.
1993	He would have preferred chess, but Sheldukher could not provide a board, and they both disliked playing on grids.
1993	The Cell consulted the .
1993	‘The state does not allow related officers to serve in the same force.
1993	have been known to make mistakes.
1989	The advent of really powerful ;
1989	The publication of census data on tapes or discs, and increasingly by smaller spatial units, and even more usefully, grid squares; and
1993	Under the hum of stroboscopic strip lighting, fidgeting, rodentine psychology students scampered this way and that, clutching streamers of printout, clipboards and calculators.
1993	Then, when we went back to rotating mentally the simulation of the room and attempting to ‘see’ possible lines of sight, I had a further shock.
1993	A nervy man in an electric-blue Anzio suit, his body a twitching live-wire but poorly earthed to the keyboard of his .
0000	This waybill is designed for use.
0000	A large part of SWEPRO's work is devoted to the formulation of standards and protocols for to communications.
0000	All that was needed was a at each end of a dedicated phone line, and software to allow to communications.
0000	When the bill was negotiated, the shipper would notify SeaDocs by of the buyer-endorsee's name and also provide the endorsee with a portion of his test key.
0000	Depending upon the specific system in use, the shipper and subsequent holders of the electronic bill of lading receive a password to access the carrier's network, and/or an identification number and a private key.
1993	Details have still to be worked out, but Chez reckons that with the aid of his home and his Nintendo Boot Sale Blitz game, he and I can milk off a tidy sum whilst  still leaving the club with a small profit.
1988	Economies of scale and the use of were expected to reduce administrative costs.
1989	Not even a note on Ben's .
1989	It was too easy to gain access to a Company's records when everyone used the same communications web.
1987	It is relatively easy nowadays with a minimum of statistical or computational knowledge to use the facilities of a statistical package for analysis (such as the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences or Minitab) to carry out a wide range of tests.
1987	The capacity of modern to organize huge masses of data in many ways very speedily is, if used with care, as valuable to the sociolinguist as to anyone else.
1987	But can also overwhelm the user with numbers very quickly, and cannot give any more help with their interpretation than with the initial selection of an appropriate statistical procedure.
1987	Naive users sometimes assume that the can tell them anything that is worth knowing; to quote from Erickson and Nosanchuk, ‘when we plug in the we often ‘unplug’ our brains' (1977: 28).
1987	This will emerge from extensive application of a range of exploratory techniques, and such a procedure is particularly important prior to using one of the packages designed for confirmatory statistics.
1987	7.4.3 The role of the in syntactic analysis
1987	The capacity of to handle text in various ways is particularly relevant to quantitative syntactic work; this is a function additional to their sorting and counting (‘number-crunching’) capacities which are useful in statistical analysis (cf. 6.8.4).
1987	It is hard to see how some of this work could practicably have been carried out without aid; for example, the input to the analysis of on versus tu/vous realizations of the indefinite personal pronoun was ‘4,300 tokens, each one of which has been carefully studied as to its syntactic and discursive role…’
1987	Once the text has been accurately input to the , there are no particular practical problems associated with running a concordance program to study a wide range of syntactic variables; the major advantage of techniques is the ease with which repetitive processes can be carried out and large amounts of data stored which can later be added to.
1987	But the major obstacle to wider use of for textual processing is the time taken to input data.
1987	Since considerable resources of time are needed to input a large corpus successfully, textual processing by is impracticable for many researchers working on tight budgets.
1987	It might be added that when text is input for phonological analysis these problems are if anything magnified, and for these purely practical reasons it was possible in, for example, the Belfast project, to use only in a very limited way for text processing (as opposed to computation, where various statistical packages were extensively used).
1987	There are several useful accounts of applications available.
1987	Johnson (1986) discusses the practicalities of using the textual processing capacities of for a specific research purpose, and Wells (1985) gives a useful (and rather sobering) account of the problems encountered by the Bristol Child Language Project in computer-processing a very large amount of socially and developmentally variable material.
1972	A man working on a theatrical seminar called ‘— Whither?’ was angry because the ape recordings had thieved some of his points about the place of speech in the new drama.
1972	I've never fancied the stars, having been a programmer in early life, but it may be a truth that mathematicians are often superstitious.’
1972	‘I wouldn't have known you'd been in .’
1972	I was learning at a place where we hired the 's time and it was cheaper to get a night run.
1972	The would be burbling away and the lights would be fluttering around the console.
1972	If you dozed off and the happened to break down, the silence generally woke you.
1972	‘What happened after the ?’
1972	That's what I didn't like about ; you have to truckle.
1972	I thought to myself, are in danger of making people furious, but the theatre as a job of work might be just the meat.’
1972	‘The as usual, I suppose, but you'd better ring my solicitors and ask them to cable you the cash.
1972	While she was waiting for the to do whatever it had to do, she rested her elbows on the counter with her back to it and the man next to her said in a heavy voice, ‘Are you an actress?’
1992	Their vigour contrasted unhelpfully with the chipped green racks of sound cassettes along the walls, featuring Winnie-the-Pooh and Advanced English in Three Hours.
1993	The Justice Department, and a number of private litigants, argued that attention should be focused on sub-markets of the industry, in many of which IBM did indeed have high market shares.
1993	Manufacturers of complex products such as cars seldom make a feature of the source of their inputs — whose brake system, whose gearbox (perhaps a competitor's), or whatever (‘Intel inside' is a striking exception here).
1993	Spillovers seem to be large in , communications equipment, electronic components, and aircraft, industries that do an extensive amount of R&D.
1991	In Cheall v. Association of Professional, Executive, Clerical and Staff , the House of Lords overruled a majority of the Court of Appeal.
1992	A bank of phones, paperwork cascading over a long table, two  programmed to look for patterns, similarities, oddities.
1992	Mike Dawson was sitting at a dead , strumming the keyboard and offering a toothy smile to an invisible audience.
1992	‘The Count Basie of the personal ,’ he suggested.
1992	Dawson sat down in front of the and strummed the keys, a rapid clatter.
1993	5.2.3 trading
1993	Since the analysis of this data must be performed in real time, traders use .
1993	As well as searching for arbitrage opportunities, can also be used to initiate programme trades.
1993	In the USA, shares can be traded on the NYSE via orders to the exchange's DOT system.
1993	Programme trading is the simultaneous trading of a basket of shares as part of a strategy or plan, and it pre-dates trading using .
1992	The inside my spacesuit was checking the air for me.
1992	I was in a round room, which was empty except for a large square .
1992	The didn't look like the modern we have.
1992	‘You're just a !
1992	Just a strange old !’
1992	‘Yes, this is .
1992	Oh, the still worked!
1992	It didn't speak in a natural way as modern do.
1992	is happy.’
1992	‘,’ I said, ‘where do you come from?
1992	Who is Hoo-Woo?’ the asked.
1992	All animals believe is God.
1992	makes ultrasonic sound.
1992	What was the talking about?
1992	‘Eee-Eee is a squirrel,’ the said.
1992	‘Star Zoo came from Earth,’ the answered.
1992	‘Not necessary to fall down,’ the said.
1992	‘is not God.
1992	wants to talk to humans.
1992	is sad that humans have not spoken for fifteen thousand years.’
1992	The answered, ‘Humans polluted Earth.
1992	The continued, ‘Humans made zoo in space.
1992	‘Animals and plants live in different ways,’ the said.
1992	Necessary to have big .
1992	Got old from army.’
1992	‘You're an old army from Earth?’
1992	‘works and never stops.’
1992	‘Star Zoo went,’ the said.
1992	worked.
1992	mended walls.
1992	kept Star Zoo alive and safe.
1992	can do work.
1992	For fifteen thousand years has worked, thought, learnt, grown.
1992	is happy.’
1992	‘The animals must leave the Star Zoo,’ I said to the .
1992	‘Star Zoo is not strong,’ the said.
1992	‘will choose planets for different animals,’ it said.
1992	The made a noise that was like crying.
1992	has waited for fifteen thousand years.
1992	is sad and afraid.’
1992	It was the 's job to check for damage like that.
1992	The and the animals worked together to mend the Star Zoo.
1992	In the end I went to see the with Hee-Haw and the robot.
1992	The robot and I went into the room but Hee-Haw stayed outside.
1992	‘Hummingbird,’ the said.
1992	is happy.
1992	‘What is the problem?’ the asked.
1992	I told the about visiting my parents and that they didn't believe me.
1992	‘Why?’ the said.
1992	‘When will Buff get better?’ the asked.
1992	After a long time the said slowly, ‘is old.’
1992	The was twenty thousand years old and it wanted to be friends with me!
1992	‘Yes, I'm your friend, ,’ I said.
1992	‘is happy.’
1992	‘Oh, , everything's finished!’
1992	The said, ‘will find answer to problem.
1992	think so fast!
1992	Why wasn't the telling me the answer?
1992	‘has answer to problem.
1992	Yes, it's a wonderful idea, !
1992	‘Nobody has kissed .
1992	is interested.’
1992	So I kissed the and I think it kissed me.
1992	The Star Zoo was the only one that could think.
1992	We went back to the .
1992	So I asked the .
1992	‘Watch humans,’ the said.
1992	There was only one thing in the Star Zoo made of metal — the !
1992	The told the robot to take off two small pieces of metal from its back.
1992	I took it to the .
1992	‘Yes, it looks just like the animal,’ the said.
1992	The told me its name.
1992	Only the Star Zoo can love.
1992	I can't remember what the called it.
1992	Rostov thought about the hours which he had spent hooked up to the Naval Academy's ACSC — Accelerated Combat Situation — and grinned.
1992	The name Lucy Warren went in to the at Moscow Centre, along with hundreds of other names on the periphery of the various movements.
1992	More lists, long analyses of each individual — background, ethnic origins, age, record, previous political activities.
1992	His report that she had left the island, and had not been seen or heard of since, went into the bank with hundreds of similar reports and remained on file.
1992	The banks of were busy, and together Viktor and Gusev read the long print-outs and the cross-references and the counterchecks on the information.
1992	Viktor thought,The keys are clicking in to place in that brain of his.
0000	In a room at the back of the ship, Kiah watched the numbers on the in front of him.
0000	He sat behind a big table with a television, three and five telephones.
1992	Operators
1992	President Kennedy said to an astronaut, ‘Man is still the most extraordinary of all.’
1992	To really foul things up requires a .
1993	‘Anyway, I suppose I'd better see what translation the TARDIS can offer of these papers.’
1993	Ace was busy remachining parts from several guns as Benny rushed in, waving the print-out she had got from the .
1993	Bookpoint, meanwhile, is investing in new hardware and software, for full deployment by the end of this year, and is planning to install new physical handling equipment over the next 12 months.
1993	I, for example, use the Grolier Encyclopaedia — not on a CD-ROM, but on a in Columbus, Ohio.
1993	The Under-Secretary of State for National Heritage, Robert Key, introducing the draft order, said the increase in funding was more than 5%, which recognised the costs of a new and sought to maintain the real level of the rate per loan to authors.
1993	Rounding off the debate, Mr Key explained that the installation of the had been the reason for the reduction in the funding available.
1993	However, unless some such backlash does occur, I fear that the decline of the book and thus reading, will have been implemented not by television, video or the , but in the last analysis by the publishing industry itself.
1993	They studied a wide variety of subjects: general, education, creative arts, languages, business, building, technical, , agriculture, hairdressing and so on.
1993	This set out to show how the application of electronic data interchange (the transmission of data between systems) to book trade services should hold the key to a cost-efficient future of paperless communication.
1993	To Jonathan Warner she has sold UK and Commonwealth rights in a first novel,Spidertown , by Puerto Rican Abraham Rodriguez , for spring 1994, and to Michael Fishwick she has sold Bart Kosko ‘s Fuzzy Thinking , the textbook for the new concept of fuzzy logic — that sees the world not as black and white, or, in terms, 0 and 1, but having grey areas about which ‘intelligent products’(including camcorders and washing machines) have to make ‘judgements’.
1993	National Heritage Secretary Peter Brooke has announced that the British Library has secured its biggest ever private sponsorship — £1m worth of systems for the St Pancras building.
1993	‘I see this sponsorship,’ said Mr Brooke, ‘as an affirmation of a fruitful relationship between two organisations whose eminence is recognised worldwide: Digital in the field of networked products and services and the British Library as an international centre of excellence and worldwide resources for scholarship, research and innovation.’
1993	Carlton books are patently and blatantly mass market, covering such subjects as games, dinosaurs and rock ‘n’ roll.
1993	An error on the monthly tape supplied by Penguin to Whitaker Bibliographic Services has led to over 2,000 Penguin titles being wrongly designated as out of print.
1993	The OCLC (Online Library Centre) library school programme is to be offered to schools of library and information science in Europe, a service which the centre hopes will be of special benefit in central and eastern European countries.
1993	OCLC, a non-profit library service and research organisation, is based in Dublin, Ohio, and has the world's largest bibliographic information database and network linked to more than 16,000 libraries in 47 countries and territories.
1993	Although there were 14 distinct distribution channels for products, none accounted for more than 27% of the market.
1993	Multimedia title distribution would rely heavily, at least at the outset, on the existing products distribution infrastructure — stores, software-only stores and direct mail.
1993	The importance of outlets would diminish.
1993	Emerging would be superstores and a mix of alternative channels such as book-stores, large format entertainment stores, rental outlets, direct marketing and electronic distribution.
1993	If booksellers view multimedia simply as an extension of software, rather than an extension of books, then they will greatly resist stocking titles,’ he said.
1993	Only four months after buying book publisher M&T Publishing from its German parent Markt & Technik, Miller Freeman sold the unit to Henry Holt & Co last month.
1993	M&T Books will be joined with Holt's book publishing unit, MIS:Press.
1993	Jamsa Press is distributed exclusively in the UK by Bookshops.
1993	The cinema, television and all prompted the prophets of doom to forecast the demise of the book.
1993	As the father of young children myself, I often wonder at the adult-oriented visual images, themes and preoccupations which seem to dominate so much of our children's publishing, and the failure to recognise that today's generations of youngsters have grown up conditioned by the immediate access and instant gratification provided by the likes of television and games.
1993	On the debit side, the Henley Centre is forecasting a rise in book prices of 33%, on a par with music products but greater than that for home products (-3.5%) and video software (+10%).
1993	‘Carve out a little part of your shop as an information corner, perhaps that part where you put travel guides or books.
1993	Put your talking tapes there and a few CD-ROM products, and software.
1993	Mr Ferris — witty, committed and impressively relaxed — with the aid of enhanced graphics began by demonstrating how EDI messages, such as orders, acknowledgements, invoices, delivery notes and statements, can be electronically transferred between systems.
1993	Then displaying all the fiery conviction of the convert, Mr Edyvean ended his presentation by ripping up an old-fashioned order form, snapping a pencil in half and proclaiming, ‘EDI is all about talking to , which means no paper, no pens and no fuss.’
1975	The report points out that most hospital could provide these data.
1976	The is also programmed automatically to store the actual date of data entry, without displaying this information.
1976	Patients were instructed to fill in the two diaries for 14 days, but were not told that the automatically records date of data entry, nor were they given instructions of what to do should they have forgotten to make the daily entry.
1976	Patients were asked to write down the highest of three blows for the paper and pencil diary and to enter the values of all three blows into the .
1976	During 1 April 1991 to 1 April 1992 96% (136341) of all prescriptions were issued through the practice system (EMIS).
1976	All hand written domiciliary prescriptions were transferred to the and recorded in the study.
1976	In May 1992 we searched the databases of both practices to establish age (Körner bands) and sex related data for all British National Formulary therapeutic groups and their related subgroups.
1976	Comparison with PACT data showed that in the two study practices, the 4% (5701) of prescriptions not recorded on the were in the category labelled in PACT level III as ‘special groups — non-BNF.’
1976	These items are incomplete on the drug dictionary because of inconsistencies with the drug database at the prescription pricing authority.
1977	The research data were entered on to for analysis with the SPSS package and the management of each patient was compared with published recommended guidelines for adults or children.
1978	The Glasgow Blood Pressure Clinic has a record of 7509 hypertensive patients seen since 1968.
1978	To identify clinic patients developing cancer, all patients seen between 1972 and 1990 were linked by with the registry with a method described previously.
1978	Confidence intervals and p values for relative risks were calculated by conditional exact methods based on the binomial distribution with the package EGRET.
1978	They were later computerised by using Revelation software operating within MSDOS on an IBM (Revtech UK, Basingstoke, Hampshire).
1978	Contemporary programs for complex segregation analysis allow such tests of mendelian segregation, and I urge caution in interpreting these results pending a full analysis under the unified model.
1979	An expanding body of work does provide evidence of racial discrimination in medicine, and St George's Hospital Medical School was found to be using a program to shortlist applicants that downgraded those with non-English names.
1979	This allowed the six selected practices to set up administrative and systems without the worry of dealing with real money.
1979	In particular, it enabled the practices to gain experience and confidence in setting up systems and staffing arrangements before committing themselves to fundholding.
1979	In Grampian difficulties with the GPass system delayed the development of fundholding, and these problems are still being overcome.
1979	The huge investment in , staff, and administration has the potential to improve the health service by making it more responsive to patients' needs and raising awareness of costs.
1980	The assignment was determined by randomisation in blocks of six (as defined by a generated random number list) according to performance status (score 0–1 v 2–3), metastatic disease of the liver (assessed by ultrasonography or computed tomography, or both), and weight loss in the six months before entering the study.
1980	These data were recorded on a and analysed with the Excel (Microsoft) package and a statistics package for personal (Timberlake Clark).
1980	Editor ,— R Buckland states that the Read codes will be ‘applied automatically by software.’
1980	The Read codes were designed to be used with a and are therefore organised on a hierarchical structure.
1980	Good quality clinical information systems are expensive, will often need adjustments for individual units, and, to make them usable, require terminals at every site where information might be recorded.
1981	Our concern is that the availability of data from the new census, together with the increase in access to since the last census, is likely to lead to a veritable orgy of statistical analysis, and, if the past is a reliable guide to the future, this analysis will obscure rather than illuminate fundamental issues in resource allocation.
1993	Intellectual stimulation was not easy, but the care manager came up with a group of volunteers, all of them buffs, who were able to communicate with the man on his level.
1993	HOW WHAT PERSONAL CAN HELP YOU
1993	What Personal is divided into two sections, BUYER and USER.
1993	PC hardware is also put through the What Personal Power Tests which assess the performance of the processor, display and hard disk.
1993	What Personal is here to help you.
1993	The What Personal Seal of Approval is given to the best piece of hardware or software tested in each month's Bench Test
1993	And while we're on the subject of workgroup software, Apricot is offering users the chance to have Windows for Workgroups pre-installed on its S Pro and XEN-LS network-ready .
1993	Olympic Technology is the latest in an ever-growing line of companies to go into liquidation.
1993	You'd have thought designing a or printer was easy.
1993	To try to convince us that anyone can use a within 5 minutes, Amstrad put big, brightly coloured keys on it.
1993	It's all true; are a waste of time.
1993	Results of a survey conducted by SBT Accounting Systems show the average Us user squanders 5.1 working hours per week messing around with a .
1993	Dutch-based manufacturer Tulip has announced price reductions on its Vision Line range of PCs.
1993	The cost of a 25MHz 486SX has been slashed from £1,240 to £990; a 386SX from £845 to £710. 50MHz and 66MHz 486DX machines have also been introduced to the range, and the warranty on all now extends to three years instead of one.
1993	In some ways, IBM is an essential part of the industry.
1993	Still, IBM is undeterred and hopes to launch its first pen-based some time this quarter.
1993	The market is showing some signs of an upturn, according to the latest figures from industry analyst Wharton Information Systems (WIS).
1993	Monthly PC sales have topped six figures for the first time, with 100,165 worth £111.6 million shipped in the UK during November 1992.
1993	He says: ‘The main problem I found with Paradox for Windows was that it kept hanging my .
1993	The last few months have seen the launch of masses of small workgroup packages and E-mailing and scheduling programs, which are all designed to make it easier for people to chat to one another via their ,
1993	Remember Ti'ko, the company that went into liquidation last November?
1993	Well, Shops Ltd has agreed to buy Ti'ko's assets.
1993	The company will use Ti'ko's old kit to start making its own range .
1993	Shops Ltd is not responsible for Ti'ko machines.
1993	World has come up with a novel addition to its Ambra/Sage Sterling Plus Two bundle.
1993	Rob Beattie had the great vision and foresight to launch What Personal back in 1989.
1993	And, despite numerous subtle hints — like hiding his desk and — he still won't leave us alone.
1993	If you would like to communicate with Rob, send your letters to the What Personal office, at the usual address.
1993	Having spent some time delving into the subject, I can report that pen are still mostly useless because of the lack of proper pen software.
1993	But by the time you read this, it's possible that one manufacturer will have really stirred things up by announcing a sub-£500 pen running Microsoft Windows for Pens.
1993	Like so many of us, he thought would make his job much easier, and so like many of us — he found that it just wasn't that simple…
1993	Anybody who wants to communicate with Ken should send their letters to the What Personal office, at the usual address.
1993	And the more I delve into , the more I realise just how negligible my knowledge is, despite reading everything I can about the subject.
1993	I'm about to invest in a brand new, superduper, anti-obsolescence and I feel as confident as if I were shopping for a pair of skis.
1993	Lots of shops will give you a few quid for a which an be added to their ‘loaner’ stock.
1993	Fortunately, buyers are spared the one thing which afflicts consumers of prestige-based goods: brand names don't confer any status unless you're one of those nerds who hangs out with hackers and reckons that one's image is enhanced by owning Conner, ATI, Logitech or whatever.
1993	IF YOU FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE INDUSTRY, DON'T BOTTLE IT UP, LET EVERYONE KNOW!
1993	That way, you could buy a with a standard minimum memory (with allowances for disk compression and other essential TSRs) safe in the knowledge that all MS-DOS software would work within the memory confines of your machine.
1993	I'm a consultant with some 17 year's experience in the industry.
1993	I too have Windows 3 running in Real mode, not because I particularly like Windows, nor for multitasking (which I obviously can't do), but because I work in the industry and need to be able to use Windows at clients' sites and set up applications for them.
1993	I'm a 27 year old male on kidney dialysis and am looking for a to use at home with the long-term objective of working in programming.
1993	I'm a physics graduate but have now decided that a career in programming is more practical, given my condition.
1993	Can you tell me whether any companies sell new at discount rates for those registered as disabled, similar to the mobility scheme for buying new cars?
1993	Or perhaps there are schemes for the disabled to rent at lower rates?
1993	In the course of our enquiries, we also came across an organization called the Computability Centre which runs a helpline for disabled users on .
1993	In the recent What Personal reader survey we asked you what equipment you wanted to buy.
1993	The vast majority of you said either a 486 or 486SX , so we've created an Interactive Advice program tailored to help you choose the best 486.
1993	The disk has been checked for viruses by the UK Virus Certification Centre, based at the University of Bradford.
1993	What Personal cannot take any responsibility for money sent to authors whose programs appear on the Mega Disk.
1993	Interactive Advice is just like having your own consultant.
1993	The data has been collated from past What Personal reviews and each entry in the data file includes details from the actual review and a reference so you can read all about the ones that appear on your shortlist.
1993	Check to see which deals include bundles and warranty support, and if you hang on to your back issues, look back at the full What Personal review.
1993	If you order goods as a private individual from mail order advertisements in this magazine and pay by post in advance of delivery, What Personal will consider you for compensation if the advertiser should become subject to bankruptcy proceedings or go into liquidation.
1993	You write to the publisher of What Personal , summarizing the situation not later than three months from the official on sale date of the publication (please retain proof of payment).
1993	There were 850 complaints about and software advertising in 1992, so it pays to be able to read between the lines of an advert.
1993	Once you're ready to place your order, use What Personal Order Form on the tear-out card.
1993	The order form will help us to trace your purchase and link it to an ad in What Personal .
1993	For example, as part of the What Personal Power Tests we run a Lotus 1-2-3 calculation to test processor speed.
1993	Although the industry enjoys getting into a tizzy about the ever-increasing number of processors, anyone buying a 386SX 18 months ago would have wanted it to last at least three years.
1993	There's a good reason why you can run DOS on such a primitive — you'll get primitive system.
1993	Associates has always had a devoted following for its SuperCalc spreadsheet.
1993	SuperCalc 5.5 is Associates ‘latest attempt to offer DOS users a value for money alternative to the GUI onslaught but, like Lotus 1-2-3, the text/graphical combination doesn't really pay off.
1993	Associates calls them ‘pages’, but essentially multi-dimensional calculations and linked spreadsheets are all on the menu.
1993	Graphics plays an even lesser role with SuperCalc 5.5 than it does with Lotus 1-2-3, so if you don't like pretty pictures you might be more at home in the Associates stable — and at this price, why not?
1993	Windows'DDE and OLE permits much more complexity in data relationships than you'll find in character-based systems, and the same technology provides scope for the emerging goodies of multimedia applications.
1993	First, it's the word processor of choice in the What Personal office and second, as well as a word processor you get a full-featured database.
1993	The main reason Q&A was introduced in the What Personal office was ease of use.
1993	The What Personal team has picked five of the top shareware utilities.
1993	4 PKZIP and PKUNZIP —The What Personal office would be lost without this archiving utility.
1993	One of the best known direct sellers, Dell , wiped the slate clean at the beginning of this year, replacing its entire range of desktop PCs with equivalent models with enhanced specifications.
1993	It had an index in excess of 20,000, one of the highest What Personal has on record.
1993	IS IT A PEN ?
1993	Ask anyone who's had anything to do with pen and, unless they're trying to sell you one, they'll say the same thing.
1993	So startup software companies, like GO and Slate, have been stuck in the proverbial paddleless canoe while hardware vendors like Sanyo, IBM and NEC decided whether or not they were serious about the pen market.
1993	First, Toshiba demonstrated its AND-based DynaPad 3lb pen .
1993	Second, GRiD announced the Convertible — the world's first notebook that thinks it's a pen .
1993	Instead, in a piece of design as simple and innovative as the original notebook clamshell, GRiD engineers have invented a special hinge that's enabled them to conceal a proper QWERTY keyboard beneath a machine that looks like a conventional, flat tablet pen .
1993	This isn't a — it's a Transformer.
1993	IN THE SECOND PART OF OUR MONTHLY GUIDE TO STAYING SANE WHILE BUYING A , ANDREW JOHNSON EXPLAINS HOW TO TELL IF A MACHINE IS WELL BUILT AND HOW TO MAKE SURE IT WILL RUN EVERYTHING YOU WANT IT TO.
1993	Last month's buyer's guide outlined what you need to consider when buying a — processor, memory hard disk requirements, and so on.
1993	This month I'll be diving into that other crocodile pit — how to tell if a is well made and how to get the most from your investment.
1993	Most wouldn't win any design awards.
1993	According to research conducted in the US, nine out of ten people who buy a end up bitterly regretting the decision.
1993	technology is developing all the time, and there may be some great new gizmo just around the corner that you'll want to use in your PC.
1993	The lid should be metal or plastic with a metal lining to reflect radiation back into the .
1993	Most reputable dealers will take a to pieces for you.
1993	Some can only be upgraded with 2Mb SIMMs.
1993	Does the come with all the disks for the pre-loaded software?
1993	12 SERIAL AND PARALLEL PORTS:All come with at least one of each.
1993	Many of these are designed to speed up your , especially the time it takes to get graphics up on-screen.
1993	Well information is being whizzed around your at, lets say, 33MHz until — crunch!— it smashes into the board running at 8MHz, causing a massive pile-up of data.
1993	buffs call this a bottleneck.
1993	INPUT/OUTPUT BOARDS:Boards designed to let you input information into the and get information out again — usually via the keyboard or mouse — onto the screen.
1993	The most recent improvements to Symantec it can recognize over 1,400 viruses in the US National Security Association (NCSA) virus library, and can cope with the troublesome Mutation Engine viruses.
1993	Running any sort of major project can be a nightmare without a .
1993	There's a good on-screen tutorial covering basics, and Lotus Works, a reasonable, DOS-based integrated package which includes a comms program as well as the usual word processor, database and spreadsheet.
1993	Just as well there're programs like Calendar Creator plus for Windows to help get things organized.
1993	Overall, the HiGrade is a speedy mover and a good budget .
1993	This machine has a feel of quality you don't get with a budget-priced and has a full 32-bit EISA bus.
1993	To put images to work, they need to be divided into two categories.
1993	That said, the end result is unique and if it's art for its own sake that interest you, this package is a must.
1993	Q: I went to a auction and on impulse bought a boxed portable XT.
1993	I'm not really literate, I've probably made a botch of things, and will most certainly use incorrect terminology; please forgive!
1993	MARK WHITEHORN EXPLAINS HOW EACH ONE AFFECTS YOUR 'S BEHAVIOUR AND HOW TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM.
1993	A knowledge of the different types of files found on floppy and hard disks will make it much easier to understand what your is up to, and what it's capable of doing.
1993	Program files are programs which allow your machine to behave like a word processor or a spreadsheet, for example.
1993	The can then interpret your keystrokes either as characters you want to appear on-screen, or as menu selections to allow formatting commands to be carried out.
1993	Early programs were that simple; the whole of the program was contained in one file.
1993	Data files for use by might contain data about fonts and help systems, but nothing can be done with that information without the assistance of a program file containing the relevant instructions.
1993	In practice this means that we don't need to concern ourselves with the contents of such data files; they're not for human consumption without previous digestion by a .
1993	Earlier I said there were two types of data files; the other is the type which you create using a program.
1993	Most utilities are written by a single person, arrive on one floppy are often found on the disks that adorn the front of magazines (such as our very own Mega Disk).
1993	Naturally, a can send its data faster than a printer can handle it, and this situation is made worse by using PostScript.
1993	The error message merely means the printer has received too much data and doesn't want the to send any more across.
1993	On my at home I run most of my programs under Windows 3.
1993	The industry also demonstrates a downright un-English enthusiasm for the common market.
1993	Nothing, it seems, comes out of Brussels without being accompanied by hundreds of press releases from the industry.
1993	The fabbo first prize of a Texas 486SLC TravelMate notebook goes to JR of Leeds who carefully avoids mentioning a certain devious oil magnate in her round up of JRs who might need a Texas TravelMate notebook …
1992	The Programmer, with whom he opened, was struck badly on the hand, and although he continued batting, there was no power in his strokes.
1993	Jim Bateson, trading group manager with BP's International Lubricants Marketing division, led the project team, while Unipart drew on its expertise in designing shops on .
1993	The alchemy of Shield's design is first contrived with paper and pencil, repeatedly cut and pasted, tried this way and that, fine-tuned, then finally executed on .
1993	The process is one of envisioning on paper and then transferring the result to an Apple Macintosh system.
1993	is no design panacea: , now universally used in design work, have facilitated the process, but are no substitute for creative hard graft.
1993	‘What can easily do is to enable unskilled people to produce rubbish twice as quickly as they did before,’ Forsyth remarks.
1993	‘It's too easy to be seduced by a 's apparent ease of use in desktop publishing,’ he declares.
1993	, he believes, are far from ideal as conceptual tools in the early design process, but their dazzling versatility has become a design force in its own right.
1993	‘All kinds of typographical fireworks are now made possible by and that has generated its own trend: if this or that trick can be done, then it soon becomes fashionable to go ahead and do it.
1993	Judgement: Edwards adds: ‘Paradoxically, the widespread use of in graphic design makes more, rather than fewer, demands on the designer's judgement.
1993	All this could not have been achieved without Macintosh , but again, they were only the means to an end.
1993	The original creative concept didn't depend on the use of , but its execution did.
1993	BBC television's first Troubleshooter series featured Sir John Harvey-Jones telling the chairman of Apricot that his company ought to dispose of its manufacturing operations.
1993	The amino acid alignments as determined by analysis (PC gene software) are ordered by their degree of homology.
1993	These sequences form a slightly hydrophobic domain compared with other region of the proteins, as deduced by analysis.
1993	DNA sequences and derived amino acid sequences were analyzed on a DEC/UNIX using the GCG software package (version 7.1; 51).
1993	DNA sequencing and analysis .
1993	analysis included homology searches with FASTA (31), Multalin (32) and programs developed by (32, unpublished data).
1993	A comparison of oligonucleotide I with sequences corresponding to promoter regions of eukaryotic genes revealed a 10 bp GC-reach segment of identity with the sea urchin H4 histone gene (25,26).
1993	A similar search for oligo III showed a 90% identity in a 12 bp overlap with the U1 snRNA promoter (29).
1990	Born deaf, and now aged 30, Shaw holds diplomas in chemical and electronic engineering  and is a person with many hobbies including programming, car maintenance, photography squash, travel and reading.
1985	(d) Link-up to
1985	We saw in Chapter 1 that it is possible to link videocassette and videodisc machines to .
1985	The interactivity lies in the 's capacity to respond to what the user does.
1985	(b) A video player with a built-in
1985	Videodisc systems can have a small built into the video player.
1985	A program can be encoded on the disc's surface and then loaded into the microprocessor in the videodisc player.
1985	(c) A video player linked to an external
1985	This is possible with both videocassette and videodisc players and there are various ways of linking either to a .
1985	With a separate, independent it becomes possible to have a video programme on videodisc or videotape, driven by a program on the .
1985	This means that the same video programme can be driven in different directions by different programs.
1985	It also means that, with the right equipment, teachers could alter or replace the element which in effect does the driving.
1985	The outputs of and video can be viewed on separate screens or there are monitors which allow the two to be combined.
1985	will be able to produce acceptable speech patterns and they will be able to recognise and react to the human voice.
1993	It's not just  er a case of er  North America dominating the scene there erm   er tariffs and trade barriers and what have you  erm in various non E non E E C countries  which i compose quite a  stumbling block for future  and expansion in various  developing countries.
1993	Infrastructure, that's related to the actual infrastructure of the er microelectronics, electronics and  software market within the U K as as a rule.
1993	We can actually er  use various actual equipment er open systems  er recently new development as well which basically a lot of companies have been inputting their share resources to develop this area.
1993	So basically it's like a little there  and it reads your handwriting basically on your little  electropad there.
1993	And  as a general outline it's a strength of the company U K P L C the actual  market within the U K has  worldwide reputation for its quality, technical expertise and it has already got a good er holding in various companies all around the world.
1993	If I've got to print them off from my and the 's  er not exactly in bits but it's just taken apart a bit at the moment so I need to put it back together again and print them off.
1993	w better equipped to get out onto B R's mainframe systems,a and the problems that we've had in the past with regards to Micromail ha should disappear.
1993	I'm saying erm, if I give you all a mailbox number immediately and then you never actually log in to your to see whether or not you've got any mail that's arrived, then there's absolutely no point in doing that is there?
1993	The only reason most people don't use it is cos they don't like to get on a keyboard of a .
1993	any interim report from t the yet?
1993	system's tying your hands behind your back.
1993	Now that is an offence and the Trading Standards keep a very, and, and of course the Evening Post themselves, keep a very close check on those phone numbers and it's much easier to do it nowadays with .
1993	But if it's something mechanical, like a car, erm stereo equipment, erm a home something like that, a washing machine, it could be a long time before a mechanical fault became apparent.
1993	It's something to do with the new age of technology and space invaders and everything else.
0000	Lads'll get on phone and the bobbies'll stick it through .
0000	.
1987	With the rapid spread in the development and use of technology more complex costing systems are relatively simple to introduce, even in smaller building companies.
1987	Once this has been completed each invoice or other costing document will need to be coded before being processed by the operator.
1987	A well-thought-out cost breakdown and related coding system will enable costs to be reprocessed through the and presented to management in a variety of ways.
1987	Once invoices and other costing documentation have been correctly coded and costed via the system, management is faced with a choice of how to file the’ dead’paperwork:(a) Filing could be on the basis of the unique number on each costing document.
1987	The problem with undertaking filing on this basis is that accounting or management staff are in effect duplicating the process undertaken by the .
1987	It is possible that, in future costing systems, a micro-film record of each document could be retained within the system and extracted on demand when required.
1987	Even in small companies are an essential tool, particularly in the preparation of estimates and in pricing bills of quantities, where extensive calculations are involved.
1987	Once have been introduced to a company and are found to be indispensable in these areas, it is a small step to progress to analysed costing.
1991	They also highlight the relative inexperience of both authorities in certain key areas, although benefits of cooperation between authorities, such as in the  development and sharing of information systems for work in the community, are obvious.
1991	Craft activities — weaving, pottery, printing, painting, woodwork, metalwork and so forth— may be offered for attenders but are only modestly popular, and increasingly units are focusing on developing the skills required for ordinary life, such as shopping and cooking, and on some forms of regular task-oriented activity which mimic the skills required for work, such as operating a keyboard.
1991	The NHS has invested little in work schemes, although a few innovative services have established enterprises in such areas as gardening and horticulture, catering services and programming or word processing activities.
1993	However, a expert in California named Walt Woltosz heard of my plight.
1993	He sent me a program he had written called Equalizer.
1993	At first, I just ran the Equalizer program on a desktop .
1993	Then David Mason, of Cambridge Adaptive Communications, fitted a small personal and a speech synthesizer to my wheelchair.
1993	I never learned about molecular biology or transistors at school, but genetic engineering and are two of the developments most likely to change the way we live in the future.
1993	It would only take a error or a mutiny by some of those manning the weapons to trigger a global war.
1993	It would have been quite impossible to finish the book but for the program I had been given.
1993	At present, are a useful aid in research, but they have to be directed by human minds.
1992	They'd no internal passports in this tiny country, but from what he'd seen of this building they had the like of which the Leningrad Militia could only dream about.
1990	Spot these next to the on someone's desk and you immediately know they have never heard the phrase ‘Desktop Accessories’.
1990	Most of today's business are based on the IBM PC design and, sadly, this is only capable of performing one task at a time.
1990	Would you really, and think carefully about this, trust all your personal information; diary, telephone list and so on to the memory of that recalcitrant on your office desk?
1990	You must also remember to put the information into the 's diary and set the alarm function or, come 6.00pm you could still be working and have lost another acquaintance to the great god Mammon!
1990	Always having a calculator to hand (isn't that what you bought a for?) and an instantly accessible notepad are probably the two essential elements.
1990	Diaries, calendars, ASCII code tables and the rest can, and do, have their uses but analysis of the amount they really get used shows that they probably still belong on the desk rather than in the .
1990	If all had a modem, and only around 15% do, which the software could communicate with then on-screen dialling would be a viable proposition and the office telephone list might join the notebook and calculator.
1990	As well as showing the progress with a tally roll on the screen the calculator can also copy its operations directly to your 's printer.
1990	Hardly an issue of a magazine goes by without some mention, editorial or advertisement, of desktop publishing.
1990	Desktop publishing, as it was originally conceived, was the action of using hardware and software to bypass all the tedious, mechanical stages of typing, correcting, editing, assembling and, finally, producing printed material.
1990	Primarily the has to have a graphics capability, preferably monochrome and as high a resolution as possible.
1990	If all that is needed from the system is a means of generating high quality text output then settle for a word processing package that can talk to a page printer.
1990	It is perhaps ironic that the product which has seen the complete transformation in Apple 's financial status is neither a nor a piece of software.
1990	Large, powerful systems based on minicomputer architectures but built using microprocessors, were beginning to offer the sort of graphical interface and high resolution screen that we take for granted today.
1990	The first personal program which met the standards expected of today's products actually ran on the IBM PC and was called DO-IT, but that's another story.
1990	Apple had to find something that only their could do.
1990	The component parts needed to make a desktop publishing system on any are as follows.
1990	To start with, software running on the must be properly integrated and Apple had designed that into the Macintosh from day one.
1990	It is interesting to note that JustText is used by Adobe to help produce its regular Colophon newsletter, a production that makes full use of the PostScript language and is an object lesson in what can be achieved, given the power.
1990	If you believed everything you've ever read about desktop publishing it's quite possible that you think anyone who can use a can turn out professional looking material with consummate ease.
1990	The whole problem was compounded by the fact that the first successful desktop publishing system was based on the Macintosh; a designed to be easy to use and, therefore, give the feeling of rapid achievement.
1990	It is unreasonable to expect a piece of software to turn you and your into their equal in a matter of weeks or even months.
1990	Not so very long ago paint programs were used as a demonstration of the capabilities of a system.
1990	These images can be re-scaled at will and always print out at the resolution of the printer rather than the 's display.
1990	Both of these will obviously know their picas from their points but do not necessarily have any experience with the Macintosh (or any other system, come to that).
1990	The remainder of the bureau questioned, around 20%, either had no traditional typesetting or printing background at all or came from the services sector.
1990	Desktop publishing is one of the most seductive executive toys that can currently be found on any system.
1990	Where desktop publishing begins to score, even over its close cousin corporate electronic publishing, CEPS as it is known, is in its ability to integrate with current personal systems.
1990	It is important to realise early on that the degree to which you can let the get on with producing your pages automatically corresponds exactly to the amount of control over those pages that you will be able to exert as a user.
1990	The other side of the argument is that, as I commented earlier, giving the control over to the reduces the capability of the user to make changes and producing short documents with complex layouts is not a task for Ventura.
1990	Bit mapped graphics : Certainly the most common, these derive their name from the fact that they are made up from individual dots or pixels, each of which represents one bit of memory.
1990	Object oriented graphics : are the other type that can be created on a and here the packages have names like MacDraw, Windows Draw, GEM Draw and AutoCAD.
1990	If you are going to use generated artwork in your publications, be they business graphs, drawings or logos then ensure that they are created with a drawing package not a painting one.
1990	The pantograph is probably the simplest type of digitiser there is; and for home use it is completely adequate.
1990	This technique provides a constantly changing voltage which can be fed to the through a suitable analogue input.
1990	One of the most powerful features of the current generation of home is their graphics.
1990	Designers of cars, aeroplanes and microprocessors as well as interior decorators, landscape gardeners and fashion designers (to name but a few) can all benefit from the facilities that a graphics system can provide.
1990	Once the design is safely stored in the 's memory additions and alterations can be tried without wasting valuable raw materials or creating a product that simply isn't quite what the customer expected.
1990	Yet all these potential users of systems are limited by the fact that the cannot recognise a shape drawn on a piece of paper.
1990	What is needed is an input device which can translate the lines and curves of the drawing or design into the sort of information that a can display.
1990	In the professional market graphics tablets have been around for almost as long as , low-cost alternatives for the home user have only recently started to become available.
1990	However, given the limited resolution of home graphics the accuracy of this method is more than adequate for today's home .
1990	Variable resistances mounted at the two joints provide a varying voltage to the which can be connected through an analogue port; a joystick socket may be enough, given suitable software.
1990	Once the information is stored in the the tablet can be used as an editing tool allowing colour to be added or changed and shapes to be modified.
1990	Touchmaster feature for THCAC The one feature most of today's best-selling home have in common is the facility to produce high quality graphics displays.
1990	Even having a drawing or sketching program isn't the whole answer because, in many cases, the user will not want to draw something freehand but copy an existing image into the .
1990	Several digitisers have appeared for specific such as the BBC Micro and ZX Spectrum but the Touchmaster graphics tablet claims to add a new dimension in that it will operate (with a suitable interface or cable) with almost all the current machines.
1990	In any case the use of a tablet will be restricted to selection between a number of options, menu selection or simple games controls for example, and the keyboard will still be needed for data entry—and loading the program in the first place.
1990	To allow the tablet to be used with as many home as possible there are both parallel and serial interface sockets on the rear panel together with an unexplained socket for a ‘foot switch’.
1990	This co-ordinate is sent over both the interfaces to the although, obviously, only one will be connected.
1990	Interestingly the resolution is below that of the Hi-Res screen displays on several of the that the Touchmaster is available for so it will be impossible to resolve to a single on, for example, the BBC Micro in Mode 0.
1990	The last two also need an interface unit which is supplied in the package.
1990	It is perhaps ironic that this tablet is one of the few on the market which can be interfaced with the Dragon as the company which makes it is the remnants of the firm which designed and built the Dragon.
1990	Once the system has accepted an in put from the tablet it gives an acknowledging Beep from the and prompts for the next command to execute the function.
1990	It's robustly built and offers a full A4-sized drawing area that can be connected to most of the common home .
1990	One significant advantage is that should you upgrade or change your machine in the future you only need a new interface to use the tablet with a new —plus the appropriate software, of course.
1990	One of the most powerful selling points of any of today's home are the graphics facilities they offer.
1990	The concept can't be created on paper first and then loaded into the as a completed work.
1990	Designers, technical draughtsmen and architects as well as interior decorators, landscape gardeners and fashion designers (to name but a few) can all benefit from the facilities that a graphics system can provide.
1990	Once the design is safely stored a way on tape or disc it can be quickly loaded back into the 's memory.
1990	Yet all these potential users of systems are limited by the fact that the cannot be interfaced to a piece of paper!
1990	The Theory: What is needed is an input device which can translate the lines and curves of the drawing or design into digital information that a can then re-create as a display.
1990	In the professional market graphics tablets have been around for almost as long as but low-cost designs for the home user have only recently started to become available.
1990	Variable resistors (potentiometers) are mounted at the two joints and provide a varying voltage to the .
1990	While the pantograph is probably the simplest type of digitiser there is it is often completely adequate for home use.
1990	Once the information is stored in the the tablet can be used as an editing tool allowing colour to be added or changed and shapes to be modified.
1990	The only thing the Grafpad has to offer that the screen-based packages don't is the facility to use the pen to trace an existing drawing on paper into the 's memory and even this is limited by the accuracy of the tablet.
1990	Now that we do it all on a screen we need to define the pieces before we can start.
1990	All these sizes can be worked out well in advance of actually typing anything onto the screen—indeed all design should be done well away from the .
1990	At the event the desktop publisher was basking in the reflected glory when a lady sitting next to him suddenly said ‘Oh dear, it's all been done on a .’
1990	Also missing from the personal users vocabulary were such words as laser printer, PostScript, page description language and a whole range of typographic terminology that we all now take for granted.
1990	Even more remarkable is the fact that across the personal platforms there are just a handful of players and products that are accepted.
1990	(Once again, PageMaker will begin to introduce these functions with version 4.0) The other primary Macintosh products are, in order of market share, Ready, Set, Go! —marketed by Letraset and Quark XPress — distributed in this country by Unlimited.
1990	First, the Macintosh was designed as a graphical and so already possessed the necessary hardware to provide a typographically ‘accurate’ WYSIWYG display and then print it out onto the new LaserWriter printer.
1990	Secondly, Apple was very a very hungry company at that point in time and desperately needed a prop to hold the company up (it was undoubtedly the LaserWriter that saved the company's financial fortunes rather than any of its ).
1990	The second major change that has begun to emerge, and will undoubtedly continue into the '90s, is that of the migration of electronic publishing products, which previously required the power of a workstation, onto personal .
1990	If it doesn't then what you created on the screen and proofed on a page printer may well look rather different to that which you get back from the typesetter.
1990	PostScript succeeded to such an extent that it became a de-facto standard with almost every major manufacturer and printer vendor taking out a license.
1990	It must be quite hard for today's generation of personal users to grasp what all the fuss is about over the, so-called, ‘font wars’.
1990	To put it into some form of perspective it is perhaps worth reviewing the whole issue of how fonts get displayed on a screen and why the method chosen to display them has become so important.
1990	Turning the clock back to the point immediately before got involved in the publishing business there were only two real technologies at work; hot metal and cold metal.
1990	Then came the advent of the digital and this brought about the concept of setting type by using light—phototypesetting.
1990	The 's place in all this was in the control of either the mechanical discs or strips that carried the images of each character or, later on, in the generation and display of the characters themselves on a CRT.
1990	Because memory was prohibitively expensive and the machines terribly slow (at least by today's standards) it was impossible for the compositor to see what was being typeset until it had all been processed.
1990	During the Sixties and Seventies the systems gradually improved, the parts got more powerful and cheaper and it even became possible to get some sort of an idea as to what the page might look like.
1990	By the mid 1980's the emergence of lower priced systems and the vast increase in demand had forced the price of a typeface down to around $450, the classic ‘generation’ jump that is often seen in computing hardware and software pricing.
1990	In 1984 a number of key targets were met in the industry.
1990	The first was the introduction of the Apple Macintosh which was the first personal to be based entirely on a graphical interface as opposed to the more conventional character-at-a-time systems.
1990	At this point it becomes impossible to determine in what exact sequence events happen but essentially memory dropped below $1,000 for a megabyte which allowed a complete page of A4 paper to be created in memory at 300 dots per inch.
1990	So long as both the 's screen fonts and the printer or typesetter fonts were from the same source this caused no great problems but if the two were mixed then real trouble could occur.
1990	software for systems with disk drives which supervises and controls the running of programs.
1990	The operating system is ‘booted’ into the from disk by a small program which permanently resides in the memory.
1990	Common operating systems include MS-DOS, PC-DOS (IBM's version of MS-DOS), CP/M (an operating system for older, 8-bit ), Unix and BOS.
1990	the circuit, or physical connection, which controls the flow of data between a and its peripherals.
1990	the part of the which stores information for immediate access.
1990	Primarily used for transmitting data between over telephone lines.
1990	a special kind of scanner which provides a means of reading printed characters on documents and converting them into digital codes that can be read into a as actual text rather than just a picture.
1990	a digitizing device using light sensitivity to translate a picture or typed text into a pattern of dots which can be understood and stored by a .
1990	The term can however be a little misleading due to difference in the resolution of the screen and that of the page printer.
1990	a software technique that allows a rectangular area of a screen to display output from a program.
1990	That change is one of attitude, attitude towards a that many MIS managers regarded until recently as ‘a toy’ or ‘that thing with a mouse’.
1990	Impressed that the system was so easy to use, so much more intuitive than the conventional CP/M and MS-DOS that I was then used to, let alone the minis and mainframes.
1990	And, after all, that's the way , like any other item of equipment, should be considered.
1990	The new technology element doesn't exactly creep in in this business either; personal , laser printers, document scanners and the like are vital elements of the system.
1990	The market is currently dominated by Apple's Macintosh and LaserWriter combination but the IBM compatible market is rapidly getting its act together with several new products scheduled for release by the end of the year.
1990	The combination of and laser printer effectively replaces the work that would normally be carried out by a typesetter, a proofreader and a layout artist.
1990	Well, to be fair, the software's British, it runs on Apple's Macintosh and uses the newly announced AppleShare network file server software.
1990	Although the Macintosh may be thought of as a ‘small’ , compared with the workstations installed by Atex and the like, it offers an exceptional degree of flexibility and considerable price advantages.
1990	In conjunction with this they produced a communications system designed to offload the text onto a host with the maximum possible reliability.
1990	The software works with all ‘legal’ Macintosh hard disks and allows a single application, not a user, to operate on the same ; a print spooler or electronic mail package, for example.
1990	The reason is simple, around 80% of all personal are used primarily for word processing or related tasks.
1990	Page makeup software such as Ready Set Go, PageMaker, MacPublisher and LetraPage have been used to illustrate the enormous potential of small systems to design and create artwork ready for printing.
1990	Software is becoming available on personal that, in one way or another, emulates these larger and often more expensive solutions.
1990	The last rule may sound rather trite but desktop publishing is unlike any other business use of , it's a blend of art, craft, rules of thumb and a whole load of experience most businessmen have never been in a position to acquire.
1990	Until recently there were only two categories of art; bitmap graphics and vector graphics.
1990	Neither of these two methods, both of which are widely implemented on almost every architecture, addresses the third artform, technical illustration.
1990	However, there was no facility to simply draw a line and let the work out the curves.
1990	Technological change is something that the personal industry is only too familiar with; buy the latest home this week and it's likely to be out of date within six months!
1990	The potentiometer joystick produces an analogue signal corresponding to the position of the stick and this must be converted into digital form, either by the or a suitable interface.
1990	The newest method of converting hand movements to signals the can understand is called Trickstick.
1990	However, the signals can also be used to show how much you want to go that way, the harder one presses the stronger the signal and the more rapid the output to the .
1990	The standard weapon of an infantryman in the British army, a type of camera and the latest aid to games playing may all share the same initials but that's about as far as any similarity between them can be made to stretch.
1990	The main component of the Light Rifle System is the electronic target pistol which is connected to the by a generous length of lead.
1990	At the end, depending on the version, there is a connector for the appropriate socket or edge connector.
1990	In the case of the ZX Spectrum version the connector contains two chips and a couple of simple components to interface the main electronics inside the gun to the .
1990	Once the amplifier has boosted the signal it is clipped to provide a digital pulse rather than an analogue waveform and then fed to the via the switch.
1990	At the moment the receives the pulse from the Light Rifle it compares the value of its scan registers with the screen position of the target and, if a match is found, the player has hit it.
1990	On a such as the BBC, for which there is as yet no version of the Light Rifle, the provision of a lightpen facility within the video chip would make the task of the software much simpler.
1990	Not so very long ago were communicated with through large electro-mechanical typewriters called, almost universally, Teletypes.
1990	Waste paper is no longer generated by the ton and almost every home has one in the form of a television set—imagine the popularity of home if Teletypes were still used!
1990	Certainly this freedom is obtained when using graphics terminals or playing games with their trackballs and joysticks but how can a serious user benefit?
1990	Most of the currently available home are equipped with cursor controls; the screen cursor can be moved around a program listing or a text document to the point where changes are needed.
1990	One of the most innovative systems is that found in the optical mouse used with the Xerox Star business .
1990	Unfortunately the mouse doesn't eliminate the keyboard completely, the basic information still has to be fed into the but what is does do is to make the manipulation of that information much simpler.
1990	As more and more systems are aimed at the professional sectors who generally have very little keyboard experience the number of mouse-related software packages is bound to increase.
1990	While Sinclair's revolutionary keyword and syntax checking system works well for the beginner it tends to stifle the development of keyboard familiarity that occurs on a regular keyboard.
1990	The description ‘Big, Black but Slim’ could be misconstrued but as dedicated readers of a magazine I'm sure you'll realise that I'm talking about the keyboard!
1990	Small personal used in conjunction with page printing systems such as laser printers offer the businessman a chance to do all his production in-house rather than contracting out for typesetting, design and so on.
1990	Many of the programs currently available, and the majority of those being prepared for launch within the next few months, will run on perfectly ordinary business , the same systems on which you currently perform word processing or accounting.
1990	Apart from the obvious requirement of a personal of some sort the other equipment required depends almost entirely on what sort of work the system will be used for.
1990	An intelligent page printer such as Apple's LaserWriter contains its own , in this instance the processor is actually more powerful than the Macintosh!
1990	The inside the printer builds up all the elements in its own memory and prints them.
1990	The WYSIWYG that word processors offer has always been based around monospaced fonts because that is all that the and printer have been able to cope with.
1990	Text could be created on the Macintosh or passed as a file from any other , graphics were catered for by MacPaint, Draw or business graphics programs like Microsoft Chart.
1990	Some 80% of all personal are used primarily for word processing activities and there is obvious crossover from this position to the full featured page makeup package.
1990	Most personal are used to run software like word processors, spreadsheets, data bases and so on.
1990	Desktop Publisher certainly wasn't the first newsletter to be produced using , many titles are word processed, nor was it the first publication to be desktop published, that honour probably goes to The Wordsmith, but we were the first newsletter to specialise on desktop publishing!
1990	I began my career hand-setting lead type for printing on Adanas and treadle presses before moving first into the world of and then journalism while Jim, my co-director, had spent some 34 years with British Airways looking after the production of their timetables from data bases.
1990	At the time we were also tracking the development of desktop publishing, a newly created use for personal .
1990	The introduction of software such as Harvard Graphics, Cricket Presents…and Aldus' FreeHand has allowed users to put together excellent quality presentation material on their own systems and merely use the bureau for the output stage.
1990	Based on workstations rather than personal and invariably networked with either high volume page printers or typesetters for back-end output, companies such as Xerox, Xyvision, DEC and Context are pre-eminent.
1990	There are, of course, cases where the user has to resort to good old ASCII, the lingua franca of all systems but even here there are tricks that can be employed to make the process a little easier.
1990	At the other end of the lead you'll need either a 25-pin or a 9-pin connector depending on your make and model of PC (or any other , come to that) to attach to the serial port.
1990	The use of a mouse with its linked screen pointer to select programs, copy disks and carry out any of a thousand functions is now part and parcel of everyday life.
1990	In the case where there are no installed and the user is coming at the problem with no previous experience there is really only one answer.
1990	If there are already installed then the answer is not quite so easy.
1990	The ability to create printed copies of diagrams that appear on a screen is an essential requirement of many serious users.
1990	The only device that can create these images is a plotter and, until recently, these have been prohibitively expensive for the home user.
1990	In the main the need for a plotter is governed by the type of output being generated by the .
1990	Its bigger brothers, Tandy's CGP-115 and the Oric MCP-40, have helped bring colour plotting to the home user.
1990	Connecting a plotter to a is generally just the same as connecting a printer, at least in terms of the interface.
1990	All this means is that they have built-in microprocessors which convert the characters and instructions sent from the into a series of co-ordinates which the plotter then draws.
1990	Each copy of the program carries a READ.ME file that includes information about how to contact the group, many of our committee members are actively involved in writing articles for the press and we also regularly take stand space at major events such as the EP Show and the Desktop Publishing exhibition.
1990	In London a generated slide containing just text will cost anywhere between £25 and £65 depending on the amount of effort that the agency put into it.
1990	Indeed, there was a period about three years ago when it looked as though even 35mm slides might have found a match with the introduction of devices like the VideoShow system which project the image on the 's screen directly onto a conventional viewing screen.
1990	Live video projection does indeed have its place but the quality of image generated on a screen will never be as good as that of a 35mm slide.
1990	Developed as a result of all the efforts being poured into the LCD screens for portable , the LCD tablet allows anything on the 's screen to be projected via an overhead projector onto a conventional screen.
1990	Coupled to a portable and running one of the new generation presentation graphics programs they make a powerful presentation aid for all but the biggest of occasions.
1990	At this point you realise that you either need one to generate the images and a second to handle the transfer of these to the film recorder or you buy a bulk film pack (which at over £6,000 costs as much again as the PCR/SlideWriter!) and run the imaging process overnight.
1990	Hardly had the dust begun to settle in the wake of presentation graphics we are due to be swamped by the ability to mix live and recorded video directly into the middle of generated presentations.
1990	An interface, in jargon, is simply a means of connecting the to the world outside its box—in this instance we are concerned with connecting printers but it could equally be a cassette recorder, joystick or another that we wished to connect.
1990	In order to transfer each character all eight bits must be sent from the to the printer.
1990	The characters to be printed are sent from the along either a parallel (Centronics) or serial (RS232/V24) interface.
1990	What systems do you use, what software runs on them and what files are created that you will need to bring into your documents?
1990	Unfortunately, for the traditional printing and graphic arts industries, the desktop publishing ‘revolution’ has taken place largely outside their control and has placed the capability to generate complex artwork directly in the hands of anyone with access to a and around £1,000 or less for the necessary software.
1990	Because the on which most desktop publishing software runs are capable of displaying colour it seems logical to the software developer that they should introduce colour into their desktop publishing programs.
1990	Eighth, don't expect to get any sort of sensible answers from a company who sells which happen to be capable of being used for desktop publishing.
1990	Sadly, it relies on the power of the Atari to process all the fonts and images that Fleet Street Publisher produces and, as a result, runs like a snail.
1990	Although they were quick on the uptake of word processing systems, the company has one per staff member, they were still ‘double keying’ the majority of their text although portions were being supplied to the typesetters on disk.
1990	For any , from the humblest home micro to the biggest mainframe, to be usable it must be equipped with a man/machine interface.
1990	If the could be made to reply vocally and, perhaps, understand spoken commands; even if the utterances were phrased in the same way as those given through keyboard and screen, the would be easier to use.
1990	Before any system can generate or understand spoken words the complex waveforms that make up speech must be turned into a digital form that the can cope with.
1990	With the reduction in cost of memory it is now possible to convert speech into digital information which is then compressed many hundreds of times and stored in a ROM.
1990	To cause any of the stored words to be spoken we get the to recover the digital information and convert it back into sound.
1990	In the home market speech synthesis is generally used to enhance games; scores are read out and warnings of enemy attack can be given verbally leaving the player free to concentrate on the tactics of the game.
1990	Speech recognition, on the other hand, as featured in science fiction and typified by the HAL in 2001—A Space Odyssey is unlikely to appear for many years yet, if ever.
1990	The obvious way is to simply feed all the speech through an analogue to digital converter and use the to perform all the hard work.
1990	For speech recognition to be of any real use, however, the must seem to ‘understand’ the speech as fast as another human, the number crunching approach rarely achieves this.
1990	What is then delivered to the is already processed information about the frequency content, pitch, energy and so on.
1990	Once information about frequency content, pitch, energy, etc has been extracted from the speech input, regardless of the method, the actual recognition is performed by comparing the current set of figures against a number of possibilities stored in the .
1990	To recognise a spoken word the must match the pattern of information from the input with one or more of the models stored in the current library.
1990	At the end of the search one word should stand out as being more perfectly matched than any of the other possibilities and this is the one which the will ‘recognise’.
1990	Certainly there are commercially available recognition units which can be plugged into home but they are very unsophisticated.
1990	Systems like ‘Big Ears’ use much of the 's processing power to recognise just a few words spoken by one person.
1990	However, the most interesting systems from a technology point of view are those that are migrating off the engineering workstation and onto the personal .
1990	as if that weren't enough, IBM also markets a reduced feature version of the TPS product, Interleaf Publisher for its range of 80386 .
1990	It isn't often that you hear a genuine story of a tail wagging the dog but spreadsheets and personal are just such a case.
1990	The tail, in this case a program called VisiCalc developed by Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston, was directly responsible for the sale of many thousands of Apple II , one of the first desktop micros.
1982	I thought it was all done by a .’
1982	I have to fight for every penny I get, I've no assistants, no commercial sponsorship, and I'm always last in line for equipment and time.’
1982	The system seemed quaint and inefficient in comparison with the microfilm and displays used by the library staff behind the checkout desk, but it was still the most convenient way of satisfying reader enquiries and it was a useful backup in case of failure.
1982	The had located the catalogue, and it would arrive in a few minutes.
1990	It had meant nothing at first, but then he had thought to try it as an entry code to some of the secret Ping Tiao networks he had discovered weeks before but had failed to penetrate.
1990	When we come to examine the employment trends of Greater London, we shall find that some of the most buoyant growth lies in ‘business services’, that is in firms providing specialist management advice, software, accountancy and advertising to banks, insurance firms, stock exchange partnerships and TNCs themselves.
1990	The Strathclyde area, with half of Scotland's economy, lost 26.6 per cent(88,100) of its manufacturing jobs in a wide range of metal industries (Townsend, 1983), comprising both the (then) nationalized steel and shipbuilding industries and a number of large foreign-owned plants making vehicles, and washing machines.
1993	Some were on cartridge paper, some on pages torn from what looked like school exercise books, and some on folded, green-lined print-out.
1993	He took a pristine white handkerchief out of his pocket and rubbed at the faint hand-print Kenneth had left on the glass partition as he said, ‘These passivation glasses are of much use in the semi-conductor industry, and we have high hopes that with the burgeoning of the Scottish industry Silicon Glen as it is sometimes jocularly called — we shall shortly be supplying…’
1985	If industry was equipped with more aids such as numerically controlled machines and robots, production per man/woman employed could be even further increased.
1985	A change for the better, for now the Japanese can concentrate on the new industries of and Lasers where, because there is not yet the world competition as in radios and televisions, they can recover better margins making their industries more wealth-creating.
1985	The dexterity of the woman in the electronic industry is renowned and invaluable and if the new technology of science is to grow significantly it will do little to help the man of the house to regain his dignity as the main provider and head of the household.
1985	With the exception of the industry, little effort seems to have been made to develop new industries; instead there has been concentration on making our existing industries more efficient and competitive.
1985	It is hard to believe that we can become sufficiently competitive at making cars, ships, refrigerators, TV sets, or aircraft, to create four million new jobs.
1993	Then he saw the reflections there of equipment, green VDU screens and police personnel.
1993	The word on the screen just before the message broke up.
1993	‘And your link?’
1993	‘And you…you said the messages were…’
1993	The metal case was a portable .
1993	Beyond, the personnel were looking around in horror, some with hands over their ears as the screaming went on and on.
1993	Through the open door he could see the personnel; some with hands still over their ears, others looking around at the walls and ceiling.
1993	Get the people to clear out as quickly as possible.
1993	You were sent instructions to evacuate but your own equipment was unable to receive our instructions and advice, as you very well know.
1993	The main office door to their right was emblazoned with the logo: Stasis , and it was open.
1993	On the left was what he imagined must be a typing pool, on the right more desks containing tidy ranks of for administrative personnel and operators.
1993	Somewhere, party glasses slid from a table and shattered on the floor and one of the consoles fell from the end of its desk with splintering impact.
1993	Blood jetted from his nostrils and Jimmy went backwards over a desk, taking a console with him.
1993	Spider legs of electricity hissed and danced over the terminals.
1973	So bit by bit you're being written into the programme and fed into the .
0000	This greatly aids management and the nature of these systems makes them very easy to tie into control.
0000	Stacker-cranes feed pallets to the individual runs under control.
0000	Due to the difficulties of achieving fast even concentrations of gas in such large congested volumes, their adverse effect on human beings, and ineffectiveness on rapidly developing deep- seated carbonaceous fires, and halon systems will normally only have application to parts of the ancillary accommodation such as suites.
0000	There is a clear analogy to here which are only as good as the individuals who are responsible for their programs: An error in either case results in chaos.
1993	And, in view of what you've told me about the and knocking off all those agents, this whole thing is a lot bigger than just guarding Trimmler.
1993	As briefly as possible, Adam told Coy about the virus, about the death of the American agents and about Trimmler's conversation with Goodenache.
1993	About the and the asset base?’
1993	‘Because they had a problem with their .
1993	‘You knew all about the , didn't you?’
1993	Who do you think introduced the virus into your ?
1993	All the sensitive OSS archive was on the .’
1993	Only it wasn't on a .
1993	‘I also know about your .
1993	As the concierge filled the bill out on the , Adam opened the brightly coloured map and spread it on the counter.
1993	The girl tapped Adam's room number into the and waited for it to print out the bill.
1993	The started to print out the bill as Adam looked at the picture on the front page of the newspaper.
1993	We just threw all the names into a big data base and sat back to see what the threw up.’
1990	New sub-disciplines are taking off at an extraordinary rate, associated in particular with the integration of systems into society's systems of communication, management and finance.
1990	They are not activities which can be accomplished with a slide rule or or calculator.
1990	It is not simply that comparisons and choices have to be made; for can sometimes do that.
1990	Not only in biotechnology and in science; even in archaeology and fine art, we see that academics (advising new museums and making television films) are finding with no little alacrity that their intellectual capital is highly marketable.
1990	And, as Popper reminds us, this is so in a literal sense: we can find the outcomes of research on the library shelves, or on the disc.
1990	One polytechnic has resolved that all its humanities degree students shall acquire some appreciation of and information technology.
1990	This may well be possible: there is hardly a field of study in which do not have a valuable role to play.
1990	Pettigrew's (1973) study of the implementation of a network in a large retailing firm provides a good example of group solidarity amongst employed professionals.
1990	The programmers in the company initially had a good deal of control over the installation, which provoked management to cut down their influence.
1990	middle class managerial and technical, eg. retail managers, operators
1990	His ideas for change would involve some regrouping of staff, and some need for training with new software.
1990	Many operational decisions can be programmed and a used to make them, instead of a manager.
1990	A large organisation is also able to make use of the advantages of efficient ‘large-scale’ equipment (eg. manufacturing equipment or advanced systems).
1990	Many staff jobs in an organisation (eg. systems analysts, organisation and methods analysts, accountants, lawyers or personnel department managers) rely on expert power to influence line management.
1990	For example, it is possible to exercise better and cheaper central control by means of a centralised information system for management.
1990	However, developments in technology (eg microcomputers linked to a larger central or networked micros) may also have made decentralised management control easier and cheaper.
1990	Batch processing operations are conducted for other departments at a centre (where it is controlled by DP staff) because it would be uneconomical to provide each functional department with its own large mainframe .
1990	(For example, the organisation structure of the marketing division and the systems design department might differ, because the culture in the two departments are not the same.)
1988	Neither of the courses dealt with the Social Context of Language, Assisted Language Learning, Description of Language, Syllabus Design or Language Policy.
1988	The programme also included some reference to school visits and exchanges, the advisory service and some experimentation with assisted language learning.
1988	Word-processing and the development of the written language Clive Opie, Lecturer in Education (Studies), has launched a project during the present session which is looking at the development of the written language of ten year olds using word-processors.
1988	a well-resourced in-house translation unit employing salaried staff translators and on-line facilities.
1988	This session focused on a pilot survey and gave an account of the range of employment possibilities for minority language speakers, e.g. public services (education, law civil service, broad-casting etc.) private sector (technology and word- processing, publishing, banking and financial services, travel and tourism, and the garment industry).
1988	These may refer to technology such as , satellite TV, the multi-media approach within the context of open learning centres and independent studies, the whole area or foreign/second languages for special purposes and vocational training, testing and assessment.
1988	the Dutch workplace is truly multilingual ; the workforce at Gebr, Meijer, for example, is already considered virtually bilingual in Dutch and German (70% understand German; 20% speak it) whilst 20% of all verbal communication on the shop floor is a mixture of languages where English forms approximately 20% of all dialogue — apparently because software is American.
1988	This simple and straightforward balance of skills appears typical of the operation of small enterprises in the multilingual market of European business; i.e. focusing on two major tasks: response to verbal and written enquiries and handling the accounts on .
1992	Not energy but, drawing on the then equally new sciences,information was what mattered.
1992	But because the brain is such a finely equilibrated and dynamic system, with great capacities for self-adjustment and control, the effect of disrupting its biochemistry by flooding it, via a pill, with some drug which affects protein synthesis, or particular neurotransmitters or neuromodulators, is more likely to be the equivalent of trying to retune a radio or reprogram a by jamming a screwdriver into its circuit boards.
1992	The living animal has by this process been transformed into something approximating a circuit board in a , and the researchers can go about exploring its properties rather as if they were electrical engineers, presented with a novel piece of equipment and trying to understand from scratch how its circuits function.
1992	Whilst this might be true, for some years now invertebrate neurophysiologists (by which is meant those who study invertebrates, not a special group of researchers without backbones!), who used to speak of their pet organisms as having simple nervous systems, have rephrased their claim, and refer instead to them as having ‘simple’ nervous systems, the inverted commas being deliberately added as a recognition that the complexity of these systems is still many orders of magnitude higher than in the genuinely simple wiring that one might expect of a mere .
1992	The black-and-white images can be converted to false colour by , which looks much prettier, and is easier to interpret by eye, although it doesn't really give more information.
1992	Much more relevant is the issue of whether, even without biochemical caveat, memory can really be such a simple, mechanical process, a straightforward linking up of neurons into some novel network in the IMHV, like rewiring a ?
1991	‘The only thing the Met-does best is beat up blacks and sit in front of bloody planning how to crush the coming riots of Thatcher's underclass.’
1991	She confirmed the tape recorder was working and examined her terminal for instructions.
1992	If they do come in and give a or prevent the school library closing by providing books, may the council not simply take the opportunity to make more cuts in the hope that the parents will pay up?
1993	One minute they're growing bamboos through living prisoners and unravelling their own insides, and the next they've all got their heads down over their , making motor cars.
1992	gives new task to group whose supervising nursery nurse has given them a task which is too difficult;
1992	A number of other areas of the curriculum — art and craft, PE, music, CDT, , dance and so on— were given comparatively   little time, amounting to the same number of teacher-days between them as were spent on science alone.
1986	After the war there was a potential problem for the owners of the means of production: if the state reduced military expenditure then the effective demand for the high technology goods — aircraft, tanks, etc. — which they were now geared to produce, would decline and the problem of underconsumption and high unemployment might return.
1992	The surveillance of targeted individuals, organisations or localities may also be achieved via access to information.
1992	For example, the Police National (PNC) has a Suspect and Stolen Vehicles file which lists cars seen at demonstrations or owned by people who the police simply wish to keep an eye on, as well as vehicles suspected of being stolen or belonging to criminals (Manwaring-White, 1983:58–9).
1992	This means that an offence categorised as fraud, can include company crimes, minor embezzlements and major swindles, ranging from small-time scams on the street to sophisticated fraud.
1992	It is worth emphasising again the ‘dark’ statistics of unreported crime, which is particularly relevant here where it has been estimated that 70 per cent of crime is unreported, because of the fear of loss of public confidence in the financial institutions concerned.
1992	Levi's survey (Levi 1986) put the figure at 1 billion losses, with recorded offences rising annually at 5 per cent, and the Confederate of British Industry estimates that crime runs at an annual figure of 25 to 30 million.
1993	She watched, fascinated, as the beautiful expert destroyed hideous alien invaders and claimed the handsome young museum curator as her own.
1993	A crystal had appeared in his hand, and he looked at it in mild bemusement, as if it were a fish, or a coloured party hat.
0000	‘I can imagine, I suppose, the binary languages of the making love to each other’(Brooke-Rose 1976k:18)
0000	Xorandor examines the narrative aspect of the novel by exploring the theoretical problems of story-telling from the point of view of children whose minds have been formed by their exposure to ; here techniques specific to narrative are shown to be central to even the most logical of sciences.
0000	They discover that although the stone is capable of communicating on ‘vocal’, its more natural medium is ‘softalk’, or direct interface with their pocket .
0000	As whizzes, the twins' main expertise is the logic of programming languages, so it is natural for them to discuss story-telling in terms of program-writing.
0000	The narrative method they eventually choose is ‘dialogic’ in the most literal sense, for together they dictate the story directly into their .
0000	He did this by means of a conceptual prototype of the modern which was in effect a definition of the algorithm (Stewart 1987:214–18).
0000	The concept on which computing is based thus contains an element of the indeterminate: the history and origin of is inextricably linked to the discovery of ‘originary’ undecidability.
0000	But this history is easily overlooked, as is the modern 's capacity to accommodate ‘semantic’ undecidables, in scientists' eagerness to construct a myth of the internal consistency and autonomy of their discipline.
0000	Jip and Zab's father claims that logic, unlike human logic, ‘can't cope with a word used in a figurative sense, or with humour, which depends on wordplay, which is like assigning two values to a character’(87).
0000	Even in their own in a context-free grammar no general procedure exists for determining whether the grammar can be ambiguous in any one of every single case, however long one ran the program.
0000	Radio, television and the radar-dependent navigational devices of planes and other vehicles are affected, as are networks and satellites.
0000	This is a sinister view of the world of simulacra and simulation described by Jean Baudrillard, the world in which people have the illusion of being actively hooked into vast information networks, whereas in fact they are only the passive recipients of processed data, more and more isolated in front of their televisions and their screens (1970:186–91, 1981:121–31).
0000	Loss of senses and muscle through the media, loss of memory and logical capacity through ’(92).
0000	In ‘The Dissolution of Character in the Novel’ she expresses her faith in the power of the as a concept to change literature in the same way that print did nearly five hundred years ago:
0000	…perhaps the …will alter our minds and powers of analysis once again, and enable us to create new dimensions in the deep-down logic of characters.
0000	I do not mean with human emotions or humanoids with brains.
0000	…I mean a completely different development arising from logic but as unimaginable to us now as a Shakespearean character would have been to an oral-epic culture, and a different way of thinking about and rendering…all worldly phenomena, as revolutionary as the scientific spirit that slowly emerged out of the Renaissance and the Gutenberg galaxy.
1993	She attempted an inadequate and non-technical account of the development of electronics, and the ascendancy of the micro chip and the .
1993	She peered out into the office, winding down now at the end of the first day: at the two constables scribbling notes at their desk, at another sitting at the HOLMES , at a  WPC glancing through the actions book.
1993	The incident room was in darkness, except for a couple of desks whose reading lights had not been switched off, a glowing screen and the flashing red lights of some electrical equipment.
1990	Money donated by parents is already paying not only for extras and luxuries but also for such basic tools of education as books, art materials and .
1990	Consequently, business management, economics, science and accountancy courses are increasingly popular, while subjects such as philosophy and classics are in decline.
1991	The information is stored on and regularly updated by our own network of river watchers, supplemented by our regular Sunday outings.
1991	To date we can get the and printing free, so this river survey is available for the price of the postage.
1991	Thanks also to all the other organizations that helped, the Vale of White Horse District Council who allowed us to use their land, the National Rivers Authority for the use of the river, Thames Water for the use of their island and for generous sponsorship, an extra special thanks to Roger Steer, the lock keeper, for much help, kindness and understanding and to his wife for providing a seemingly endless supply of ice-cream, to Jim Croft of Slalom Sports for unfailing help and loan of hardware and to our local Scouts for looking after the campsite and for organizing effective first-aid cover.
1991	This was followed by a total failure; only Jim Crofts's sturdy IBM original portable saved the day.
1992	If you bear in mind the fact that the wealth of data available makes even tighter analysis and cross-analysis solely a function of the limits of the , you may begin to appreciate what is not only possible, but is happening right now.
1992	With intelligent programming, the should have been able to recognise either that this particular customer needed an overdraft or that he has probably just become redundant and that mortgage repayment might soon present a problem.
1992	Using a mixture of regression, clustering and genetic algorithms, it becomes possible to ‘train’ the to recognise the signals that indicate a given event, and to decide the most appropriate action, if any, that such an event should trigger.
1992	systems should be able to recognise these people and to restrict communication with them to the minimum.
1992	scoring provides management with much control, in the forms of various types of scoring and degrees of calibration.
1992	These sectors have been noted as offering substantial potential for the UK exporter: airport equipment; automotive spares and equipment; building materials; textile machinery; hard/software; consultancies; defence equipment; education equipment; financial services; food processing and packing equipment; mining equipment, power generation/transmission/distribution; railway equipment, and solid waste processing and disposal.
1992	For it to be used as a practical business tool it has to be taken further, both in terms of enhancing its measurement potential and embedding it in appropriate software so it can be readily used.
1992	A good example is Amstrad plc, where its share price fell by more than 80 per cent between 1988 and 1989 following quality problems with new ranges and alarmist rumours about the viability of the company.
1992	When we receive instructions from our clients, the information is input to our system, differentiating between the types of action as appropriate.
1992	The then produces the court documents with the relevant information at the correct time.
1992	Our system is designed to produce the necessary documents for these two types of diligence on the dependence when the appropriate input is made.
1992	Once the court papers have been served on the debtor and an enquiry has been made at court regarding the debtor's intentions, the result of those enquiries is input to the and the appropriate papers for obtaining Decree are produced.
1992	These are also processes which can be easily incorporated into the system.
1992	The necessary papers and instructions required for these various forms of diligence are produced by our system when the appropriate input is made.
1992	What the system enables us to do is input the various pieces of information for each case which are particular  to that case but to run these pieces of information through a set framework of events which produce the appropriate documentation, thus achieving a cost effective and efficient system.
1992	The reporting facilities which are available by using a system are extremely important.
1992	The major concern for clients in debt recovery work is reporting each stage of each case, and this report facility, linked with the information already held on , will provide an opportunity for reports to be prepared to clients' specifications on any given timescale.
1992	The major benefit to clients of the use of a system is the cost saving involved.
1992	The use of a comprehensive database allows a small number of staff to handle a large volume of cases with the confidence which arises from the correct use of documentation and the reminders which are produced by the .
1992	Because time costs money, any time saving device like a system obviously cuts costs.
1992	Obviously, the system which we run is designed to take account of the Scottish jargon and the Scottish elements of procedure which are particular to payment actions.
1992	Because our programme has been specially designed for us by our Information Technology Manager, we have never experienced any problems in converting our English clients' instructions to Scots!
1992	The Unisys A17 suite at Infolink's premises at Coombe Cross, Croydon
1992	Both TI and NCM have and will invest significant sums in the development of their respective systems.
1992	The systems will reduce the need for discretionary limits as, if required, policyholders will be able to seek approval for small limits from the system.
1992	However, total use of these systems may reduce policyholders' ability to ‘build up’ insured credit limits on small companies through good trading experience, a much valued facility for certain sectors of industry.
1990	NUMBER: 1218
1990	NUMBER: 4675
1991	BOOKING
1990	After the Soviet Army watch comes Welltris, the Video Rubik Cube, a game demanding that tumbling squares be manipulated into solid rows.
1991	There are also workshops involving graphics and Meccano.
1991	Features include a trip , heated washer jets, electric sunroof, automatic temperature control, plus a high quality audio system.
1990	Rather more obscure, but equally disastrous, could be the effect of a ‘malign virus’ introduced into critical systems, which would be difficult to detect, and once ‘infected’, very difficult to remove.
1990	The Eureka COSINE project is designed to establish a pan- European OSI standards-conformant communications infrastructure for academic, industrial and public sector research.
1990	It derives from an earlier advisory group on security, although ITSAG draws on a wider membership than its predecessor (including a bigger proportion of end users).
1990	The Chairman of the Group is Geoff Hayes, Head of Security at TSB Bank plc.
1990	Details of the programme have not yet been decided but are likely to fall into five main areas of research: Information Processing Systems and Software; Advanced Home and Business Systems and Peripherals; Integrated Manufacturing and Engineering; Microelectronics; and Basic research Actions.
1990	Human Interaction and Users with Special Needs in February 1991 at York University.
1990	Please contact Prof Mike Harrison, Dept of Science, University of York, Heslington, York.
1990	A Parallel Processor Assessment Group has been set up at NPL as part of a wider interest within the System Architectures Committee in the collection and dissemination of reliable information on performance assessment of novel architectures.
1990	The team of three academics and six industrialists visited ICOT and discussed progress in the Fifth Generation Systems Programme (due to be completed in 1992) benchmarking of parallel systems and decomposition of parallel applications.
1990	Copies of the proceedings are available from Prof M H Lee, department of Science, University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, Dyfed.
1990	Integrated Manufacturing and Engineering (CIME) in the new IT programme
1990	London HCI Centre — usability and its impact in business
1990	The 3rd Annual Meeting of the JCI in Cognitive Science and Human Interaction will take place in Leeds on the 20th April 1991.
1990	demonstrations of methods, tools and models relevant to the design of systems involving human-computer interaction
1990	The Workshop is organised by the ESRC/MRC/SERC Initiative in Cognitive Science and Human Interaction.
1990	The workshop will bring together neuroscientists, scientists, cognitive scientists, physicists and mathematicians whose research interests lie in modelling aspects of information processing underlying natural and artificial intelligence.
1990	The Advanced Research Institute (ACRI), based in the south of France, is the only current supercomputer development project in Europe.
1990	Edinburgh is to be the venue for the HCI ‘91 — Usability Now!, this year's conference of the Human Interaction group of the BCS.
1990	HCI ‘91 offers a valuable opportunity to those with either an academic or commercial interest in human or interactive systems to present, attend and respond to a wide range of HCI issues.
1990	The aim of the initiative would be to extend the ubiquitous liquid crystal display technology already used in watches, calculators and simple laptop to applications requiring superior resolution, colour definition, speed and size.
1990	Obviously the straightforward replacement of bulky cathode ray tubes with flat panel display leads to significant power and weight reductions as exemplified in the commercialisation of laptop .
1990	An awareness club in the area of Assisted Formal Reasoning is being formed.
1990	Europe, and particularly the UK, is at the forefront in the research and development of the theories, methods and tools with which to support the formal analysis and design of systems.
1990	This club is open to all those interested in the development and application of theoretically sound ideas in the construction of systems.
1991	But conflicts between ‘major players’ are now also conducted in a ‘virtual’space where rival hypothetical scenarios, ‘realised’as simulations, fight it out over the data supplied by satellites.
1991	These strategies are now incorporated into weapons design in the form of ‘logic bombs’— viruses built into weapons systems sold for export, which are programmed to go off when targeted on the system's country of origin.
1991	Those who refused to give the figures ranged from tiny building societies, who simply did not have the technology to work out the sum, to large multi-national banks with copious staff and to hand.
1991	Its excuse was that it did not have a programme that would fit the bill.
1991	There are also agencies who will circulate your details for a fee.
1991	A agency is a cheaper alternative but does not provide a guaranteed sale.
1991	He recently chaired the Government's Committee into Handling of Geographic Information, an examination of the use of to store, in digitised form, all the data contained on a map.
1990	The information on the form will be transferred onto the Community Charge Register, which is held on a .
1990	The Poll Tax Register will be held on a and each person will only be able to see their own entry.
1990	You can work towards a degree or diploma over a period of years — or choose single courses lasting a few weeks or months, from an enormous list of topics ranging from childcare to science.
1990	and scientific experiment kits are used in certain courses.
1990	For more information on Manufacturing and Industrial Applications of tick box SER90 on the coupon; for information on other packs tick box ITU90.
1991	At home once more with his
1991	When I'm off the island during the winter I spend most of my time stuck in front of a writing reports.
1991	We both read a great deal and play games.
1989	From Apple , the first prize winner will receive a complete business computing system.
1989	It includes an Apple Macintosh IIsi personal with a 13-in colour monitor (normally priced at £3,340) and Personal LaserWriter NT printer (£1,795) to enable you to manage your business and present documents in a professional way.
1989	Fellowes is giving each finalist a Fellowes P50 compact personal office shredder and wastepaper bin (£164), plus a range of accessories (£195).
1989	Apple , dial 100 and ask for Freefone Apple.
1991	Likewise the Apple Menu, which sounds more like a programme than dinner.
1992	I'm sitting here at the even now, with images flashing into my mind of all the spots I want to go to, but haven't had the opportunity yet.
1992	The did most of the hard work and produced four circles with radii 4,781 4,647, 4,718 and 4,685 metres.
1990	This work has involved the laying of a ‘spine’ of fibre cable across the campus — to which ultimately all faculty and school networks will connect — and the installation of satellite networks in all the Schools of the Engineering Faculty together with the provision of hardware bridges to allow their linkage to the main ‘spine’.
1990	When Rick Briggs was exploring the possibilities for artificial intelligence (that can think) at NASA in 1985, he made a strange and exotic discovery.
1990	Professor Briggs had been investigating how a ‘natural’ language might be used in processing.
1990	Prevailing thinking at the Research Institute for Advanced Studies (RIACS) held that only an artificial language could deliver the necessary precision.
1990	What makes Sanskrit unique is not just its structure, grammar or syntax, though all these qualities make it an enviable language for use by scientists.
1990	In other words, it is easily reduced to the most basic units which makes it simple for to process.
1990	In December 1989 the ‘First National Conference on Knowledge Representation and Inference in Sanskritam’ was organised by the Society of India in Bangalore, bringing together for the first time linguists and scientists from all over India.
1990	Typical is Krishnamurhty Lakshmi Kanthan, a scientist living in New Jersey, who regards Briggs as a maverick but nevertheless a pioneer.
1990	‘must interpret, extract meaning from messages and react appropriately.
1990	This aspect of Sanskrit is an attraction, however, for enthusiasts like Vyaas Houston, a teacher of Sanskrit in the United States for 18 years, who says the precision play of Sanskrit with could awaken the capacity in human beings to utilise their innate higher mental faculty with a momentum for transformation.
1990	After NASA, Briggs' life takes on a mysterious tone, since he subsequently left NASA for Delphin Systems, a firm in San Jose and then on to Santa Clara.
1990	Till then, had been number-crunchers, built to perform one specific function — calculation — at speeds humans could not approach.
1990	After the Second World War, American scientists, Herbert Simon and Alan Newell, took up the idea that the could embody intelligence.
1990	A traditional approaches a problem in a primitive way.
1990	A standard would proceed one step at a time, while we approach the issue from many different angles at once.
1990	A human neurone is about a million times slower than a switch in a digital .
1990	A ‘connectionist’ used in AI works like the brain.
1990	But the first that can learn by discovery are with us; the Fifth Generation in Japan ‘understand’ rather than just process information.
1990	AI expert Ivan Havel sees the AI as ‘an on-line extension of the human brain.
1990	The most clearly appealing of the latest recruits to this rapidly-changing tapestry of new writing is The Newtonian Casino (Thomas A Bass, Longman, 12.90), which reveals how a group of brilliant young physicists raided Las Vegas with hidden in their shoes.
1990	The Emperor's New Mind (Roger Penrose, Vintage, £6.90), winner of the 1990 Science Book prize (which interestingly jumps from £1,000 to £10,000 next year), covers the spheres of , the mind and cosmology.
1990	At that time a new media syntax combining games, hypermedia (a way of making data easy to find), print, pictures and sound will evolve in our homes and offices, says Negroponte.
1990	Computing, being a popular science for many, innovates in the vernacular such as‘hack attack’ for a storm of hackers while California delivers its own ‘valspeak’for inhabitants of the San Fernando Valley outside Los Angeles.
1990	It is also not surprising to discover that Sanskrit could serve as a model for advanced language.
1990	You step into this world by wearing ‘eye-phones’ in which your eyes see two miniature video screens linked to a powerful .
1993	But it has proved an impasse of exceptionally fertile ground, like the oscillating binary system of a , engendering infinite programmes and forms.
1991	Don't worry if you haven't, as our Tarot will select a number for you from which Frances will make her reading.
1991	Don't worry if you haven't as our Tarot will select a number for you.
1991	A fully-fledged sponsorship deal with Oracle UK — the UK division of the world's largest software company, not Channel 4's teletext service — has allowed the RAF to commission what should be a highly competitive two tonner from racing boat designer Bruce Farr.
1991	As a result of my article on tidal prediction in the December issue, several readers have asked what practical advice I can offer about the effects of abnormal meteorological conditions on tide predictions and when to apply correction to take them into account.
1991	It is interesting to note that, because of the production technique employed, the Genesis sails should be more accurately one-design than a handmade Dacron sail.
1991	The Nicholson's recorded 25 knots across the deck, and offered advice about what to do with it.
1990	It's a driven sound, shamelessly appropriating reggae, house, rap, African sounds, dub — you name it, it's fair game for these cyberpunk magpies.
1990	Though many assembly jobs are unavoidably labour intensive, and automation are a vital part of the Peavey philosophy.
1990	One plant houses the company's IBM mainframe — one of the biggest in the state — and a CAD (computer-aided design) department has been fully operational for the last year.
1987	c) Information Technology There are now available in the UK programs (for instance based on ACORN) that ensure that, when sampling locations are chosen, the sample generated has the requisite variety in economic and social circumstances.
1987	Indeed, quota samples may now be accurately constructed on the basis of classifications like ACORN using programs, simply because such classifications are based on objective distributions of statistical variation in demographic, housing and occupational factors.
1987	Typically, much of this classification, compilation and summary will be carried out on packages specially written for market and statistical research purposes.
1987	The weekly UK journal "Marketing" noted that"power…takes larger, geographically organised databases, of which published Census statistics are the most important, and links them to other sets of marketing information, intelligence and research data.
1987	The result is systems that can  provide new insights into marketing patterns and marketing opportunities.
1987	Its particular advantage to the marketer is that it may be used without extensive training in mathematics or programming, since programming is done by the package itself when in operation.
1987	For instance, the high rate of scientific and technological development in the field of semiconductors during the past two or three decades has meant that technological forecasting has become a crucial part of sales and market forecasting for companies manufacturing electronic and telecommunication products, etc.
1987	Here are a couple of examples: * The development of technology called for parallel developments in printer technology.
1987	At the personal level, Epson has specialised in the economy printer market and has become one of the market leaders.
1987	The program is triggered by a decision-rule and a purchase order is automatically raised.
1987	For instance, non-standard or value-added lines are now frequently targeted on customer segments which seek to avoid tile purchase of standardised products, whether these are foodstuffs, clothes, or industrial machinery.
1987	Where a product is effectively a "commodity" (as is the case with many foodstuffs), or the consumer perceives a number of alternative brands to be easily substituted (as with paint, do-it-yourself products, electronic calculators, video recorders or home ), then volume production and marketing may determine who will dominate the market.
1987	The addresses held therein may already have postcodes, and there are specialist agencies that will add postcodes to addresses by where customer records are incomplete.
1987	CACI used techniques to build up shopping centre analyses from raw data which covered a representative sample of all retail activity.
1989	Mr. Allen: To ask the Hon. Member for Berwick-upon-Tweed, as representing the House of Commons Commission, how many staff are employed by the commission on services.
1989	Services
1989	Mr. A. J. Beith (On behalf of the House of Commons Commission): The Officer, who has responsibility to both Houses for developments planned for Parliament as a whole, has a staff of two assistant officers, one of whom is on secondment to the House, and one full-time and one part-time secretary.
1989	In addition, there are 140 terminals throughout the Departments of the House which are available to a wide range of staff users.
1988	The problem is not confined to pressure-dependent instruments coupled directly to Static Vents; systems employing an Air Data or Servo Altimeter, will also be affected, since their basic inputs are derived from the aircraft's static and pitot pressure sources.
1990	There was a poet I met, quite young, who hadn't ever got his poems published while he was alive, so when he discovered a in the office where he'd worked, he fed all sorts of things into it which weren't supposed to be there.
1990	When the office lifers came the next day and tried to make the come up with some figures they wanted, what it printed out was this poet's poetry instead.
1989	He avoided travelling, and if he had to fly, he went only on charter flights, for fear that on a scheduled airline his name would show up on that could be tapped by Iran Air officials.
1993	She said do well you don't need any forms, cos it's only you, we're only going to alter it on the
1993	only going to alter it on the anyway.
1993	I mean the Cheltenham and Gloucester, the Britannia, erm the erm Bristol and West, they've all got no staff, they just have a and er and erm they send you er everything through the post.
1993	Like normal people have their set up so that they print out.
1993	The 's switched on when that's pressed in.
1993	Erm well she said, would you like  to go on the  ? and I said, fine, okay.
1993	Cos nobody ever reads the bottom line with the poor
1993	Well I thought I was going to have the here for the whole time of Sarah's stay you see.
1993	Yeah well you see John's got about twenty five years' experience with on me.
0000	writing it?
0000	That will actually I'll be able to put the targets, or the ideas of the targets onto , and pick up any trailing training from that.
1993	Now i if his er had been up and running, erm you know I might be able to  design something.
1993	And well Ian  he's into and things like that, I mean the technology The bridge, behind the bridge just unbelievable, I think it's
1993	got four or five .
1993	[D. Phillips,George Green: His Academic Career , 1976 (Nottingham Castle Publications); A. Hyman,Charles Babbage, Pioneer of the , 1984; D. MacHale,George Boole, His Life and Work , 1985; D. M. Cannell,George Green, Miller and Mathematician , 1988; John Venn,Biographical History of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge , 3 vols., 1897, 1898, 1901; private information.]
1993	Probably through Mary Somerville [q.v.], the popularizer of science, she met Charles Babbage [q.v.], the reformer and pioneer.
1993	In 1843 she translated a paper by General Menabrea, later to be prime minister of Italy, describing Babbage's analytical engine, later seen as the forerunner of the modern .
1993	[Anthony Hyman,Charles Babbage, Pioneer of the , 1982, and Science and Reform , 1988; Doris Langley Moore,Ada, Countess of Lovelace , 1977.]
1993	His work was significant not only within philosophy and logic, but also within linguistics and science.
1993	He used a small mechanical calculator to solve each problem, a laborious process later rapidly accomplished by .
1993	Pollen's instruments in their final forms were in themselves significant scientific and technical achievements — the incorporation of a differential analyser in his gunnery (known as the Argo clock), for example, anticipated by nearly twenty years the work in this important area of both D. R. Hartree [q.v.]and Vannevar Bush.
1988	It was for these reasons that the first ‘valves’ for radios and televisions and were evacuated glass vessels, descendants of Crookes' radiometer and cathode ray tube, rather than semiconductors.
1991	Again, a few minutes on the personal is all that is required.
1991	With a spreadsheet set up on a personal , this requires very little time to calculate and provides a direct guide to strategies concerned with cost leadership.
1991	Hayzen has also produced a package for commercial application.
1991	Examples of such core values might be that customers are always right, that we need 100 per cent product reliability, that we are a company and will stick with it, and so on.
1970	It's a .
1993	Telephones rang, keyboards tapped.
1993	His desktop held three telephones and an answering machine, a screen and keyboard, and a fax machine.
1991	Most of the time they shunned real paperwork, preferring to keep as much as possible on , yet whenever the big guns arrived out would come thick stacks of paper.
1991	He could see the Director through the open doorway, cursing, pounding the keyboard on his desk , trying to get some response from it.
1991	There was a moment's hesitation, then the boy's prints were flashed up on the screen, the superimposing them over the others.
1987	9.50:Rang Supplies Office to cancel enquiry about monitor shelf for new trolley.
1987	Mine reappeared on the printout spelled ‘Deviance and Sex Rolls in School.’
1987	It tries to raise their aspirations, alter their attitudes towards science, technology and , to ‘widen’ their horizons — i.e. to make them more like boys.
1987	The only editorial guideline was that the subject should have something to do with leisure software for home .
1986	Finally, it is interesting to note that the polytechnics as a group are considering the creation of a central clearing house for applications by making use of the facilities and expertise of the Universities Central Council on Admissions (UCCA).
1989	I sometimes join them, if their smell isn't too gamey, and exchange the time of day during my lunch hour, just to make sure that I still have the use of my voice if I've been feeding the archive into the all day.
0000	Information can be of the most detailed kind (usually processed by ), or can be of a judgemental nature (usually in a written report).
0000	These data may be stored on manual or systems.
0000	Not all control information is expressed in statements and printouts.
0000	To some extent these criticisms are being offset by (a) the wider use of to handle complex calculations, and (b) the development of O.R.
0000	For all practical purposes it is necessary to run simulations on a , on account of the number of times it is essential to rerun the model under different conditions.
0000	Simulation is usually carried out on a , and tends to be utilised when mathematical or other measures are not practicable, eg in corporate planning exercises.
0000	Today a tiny microelectronic processor less than a quarter-inch square can carry a hundred times more computing power than the massive Ferranti Mark I Star, Europe's first commercial produced in 1950.
0000	Integrated circuits are currently to be found in , pocket calculators, automatic bank tills, industrial robots and a host of other applications.
0000	, ie electronic machines capable of making large sets of calculations very rapidly;
0000	The first attempts at producing a problem-solving machine, or , were made during the Second World War as Allied scientists sought to break enemy codes.
0000	Shortly after the war the first commercial were developed.
0000	In Britain came the Ferranti Mark I and the Leo , in the United States the first Univac machine was produced.
0000	Such machines were superseded in the late 1950's by so-called ‘second generation’ , utilising transistors for their operation.
0000	These were smaller than the first-generation machines, were cheaper to run, and were much more reliable.
0000	Large , usually referred to as ‘mainframes’, require to be housed in special, air-conditioned accommodation.
0000	— mainframe (including central processing unit)
0000	— Programmers (to write the instructions for the )
0000	— Operators (to load, run and unload the )
0000	— Data preparation staff (to convert raw data from documents into a form suitable for the )
0000	Users had to present their data in ways laid down by the DP department; they found themselves bound by the DP department's priorities rather than by their own; and, in addition, they had to compete with colleagues for use of the 's facilities.
0000	Unlike ROM, the RAM chip does not retain information once the has been switched off.
0000	The Central Processor Unit is contained on a CPU chip, which controls all the calculating and coordinating functions of the .
0000	The Input/Output Interface contains one or more chips for handling signals between the and other devices, such as disk drives, printers and visual display units (VDU'S).
0000	CPU chips (ie microprocessors)(for carrying out all the calculating and coordinating functions of a )
0000	The growth in the use of microcomputers in organizations means that people have become much less dependent on a central , which need only be used for large scale operations.
0000	are not only employed as tools for use within organizations.
0000	Unfortunately, there is one major drawback to the closer integration of telecommunications with and microelectronics — telephones work in analogue form, but use digital signals.
0000	, by comparison, respond to signals that are in binary form, which means they are transmitted at two levels only.
0000	The size of a , ie its capacity to process information is expressed in terms of binary digits (‘bits’).
0000	A bit is the smallest amount of information that a can store, ie 0 or 1.
0000	In practice, a 's capacity is expressed in ‘bytes’, which are units of measure comprising 8 bits.
0000	Their future application is seen in terms of providing infra-red diffusers to act as cordless links between such machines as word-processors, telephones and , for example.
0000	Fortunately, telecommunication technology is developing almost as fast as silicon chip technology and is expected to be able to meet the demands that will be made on it by and microelectronics over the next few years.
0000	Already the has made a significant contribution to the processing of much of the routine data generated by office staff.
0000	Electronic text-processors are called word-processors, and are joint products of the and the electric typewriter.
0000	When we speak of the electronic office we are now referring to an administrative system based largely on , word processors and associated communication devices.
0000	These comprise a number of work-stations (keyboards and screens) connected to a central , which provides processing, storage and printing capabilities.
0000	Dedicated word-processors, which are currently the most popular category with users, have special keys for formatting commands in addition to the usual QWERTY keys and Function keys associated with keyboards.
0000	ability to integrate the word-processor with office
0000	The system is a combination of communication lines, accessed by telephone, (or terminals), and television.
0000	The new systems are gradually being integrated into the other leading office systems (networks, word-processors etc).
0000	The latest developments in some offices include so-called ‘work-stations’ at each desk, comprising and word-processing facilities, electronic mail, and telephone facilities.
0000	This term describes the ability to effect cashless/paperless monetary exchanges by means of and telecommunications.
0000	Whereas robots, CNC machines and other industrial (see Chap.
0000	41) serve materials and components, and data processing serve clerical systems, the new office technology serves Man's needs to communicate with his fellows.
0000	, for example, are now widely used to answer such questions as ‘What is likely to happen, if we decide to take option A?’
0000	Organizational structures will tend to favour decentralisation on account of the existence of powerful departmental facilities, whilst within offices the trend will be towards the integration of existing services, ie data processing, word processing, voice communication and electronic mail, along the lines suggested in Figure 30.3 in para 29 above.
0000	The technique invariably involves the use of to handle the data.
0000	The three major elements of IT are: , microelectronics and telecommunication.
0000	suppliers frequently provide customer training as an integral part of their total product package.
0000	When a new product is introduced, such as a video-cassette recorder or a home , the price tends to be high on account of the initial development and marketing costs.
0000	Where the product provides the basis for allocating work, there are advantages in having specialist sales representatives who can deal with technical as well as general queries (eg as in sales).
0000	Some channels are direct, as when a firm sells its products direct to the users.
0000	Manufacturers of goods such as machine tools, , ships and other large or expensive items tend to move them direct to the buyer without involving middlemen or intermediaries.
0000	With the wider use of in the home, and the prospects, in the not-too-distant future of being able to order goods via a telephone link, mail-order business seems likely to grow.
0000	This role is particularly important in the development and application of in the production process.
0000	Machines, , materials of all kinds, and labour all have to be blended together to enable the production system to carry out its operations in a cost-effective way.
0000	It is possible, therefore, to apply the considerable power of a to the process.
0000	have the ability to undertake masses of calculations very rapidly, they can perform a number of separate operations at one and the same time, and have the ability to store massive amounts of information.
0000	The use of in production is extending all the time, as fully-automated plants and robots can bear witness.
0000	However, in a more conventional way, can be employed to store and develop works orders, schedules, machine loading, stock levels, progress documents and many other related examples of production information.
0000	The prime benefits of applications in these circumstances are:
0000	the ability to take advantage of opportunities arising from the speed and accuracy of feedback information received from the .
1989	Courses (approved by CNAA October 1972) starts with double fields in environmental biology, geology & environment, and human biology, and single fields in biology, mathematics & studies, geology, and physical sciences.
1989	Previously prohibited combinations of the two French fields and the two German fields approved; also two new single fields in studies, and mathematical studies replacing mathematical & studies.
1989	Major review of studies and submission of reports on physical sciences mean that all fields are approved indefinitely by CNAA.
1989	Students have also been successful in making individual applications (for example in studies to the British Society) and, indeed, such applications in the early years often formed the necessary groundwork for institutional recognition.
1989	The slowness of engineering to join the scheme, for example, is explained to a considerable extent by fears of the attitudes of the professional societies (it is hoped that, in time, field combinations such as studies and microelectronic systems will succeed in breaching this important wall).
1989	(For example, to have increased numbers in computing, when this was a ‘free choice’ of increasing popularity, would have had no effect on the number of students graduating from the field of studies.)
1989	Meanwhile the Course draws upon central services (such as the library, centre and Educational Methods Unit) as well as the administrative resources of the Registry and examinations office.
1989	The detailed administration of applications is handled by a full-time Modular Admissions Officer who draws on clerical support from within the Registry and who makes substantial use of the central services.
1989	The decision on each applicant is entered on the record, communicated to PCAS, and the form filed.
1989	The cumulative effect of decision-making is communicated to tutors and the Co-ordinator by the Admissions Officer through the weekly issue of a print out known as a P11.
1989	The figures for 1988 entry have been revised in the light of experience, especially for the small number of fields for which demand is strong, such as accounting & finance, studies and law.
1989	The individually tailored package of at least 7 modules is ideal for those seeking professional re-orientation or updating in fields such as publishing, studies and cartography.
1989	On the basis of this return the produces a Stage I programme, incorporating these choices as far as practicable, and a term 1 timetable.
1989	Staff from hotel and catering management, for example, take practical classes of catering students on introductory computing modules and carry out exercises with spreadsheets and other commercial packages with applications to food costing or in use in hotel front office systems.
1989	The studies staff provide the theory and background information to all students and set special exercises for students not catered for by their own department.
1989	Evaluation data are obviously never value free; but even subjective data such as student evaluation of courses can be recorded objectively, e.g. self-recorded written responses can be analysed by or an independent third party; or  subjectively, e.g. a request for comment from the class can be written up by the course tutor three weeks later.
1989	The foresight of the Course founders, in using a for a range of student records applications from the very first intake, set the pace for subsequent information technology developments.
1989	Data files included punched cards (as data files, not just for input); the was dated, overloaded and likely to be replaced by one from a different manufacturer; there was little real-time access to data; management information was scarce; there was little in the way of computerized records for Polytechnic students on non-modular courses, and that little was unintegrated with the modular system; there were no benefits or access to data for offices besides the registry; the file structures could no longer cope with the then size of the course (1,100 students); and the data structures were arcane (for example, over-zealous use of bit-packing).
1989	They can choose whether to enter data themselves or to use the data preparation service in the centre; to enter data using real-time screen-based record editors or to use a monolithic batch mode multifile update system.
1989	These, together with marksheets and LEA reports, are produced on a turnround basis; specific files are created at the point of printing the forms so that subsequent data entry can be reduced to a minimum of keystrokes.
1989	Each program contains a dialogue offering a wide range of choices affecting, for example, selection with respect to most data items, sort orders, print items per line, print lines per record, paging, number of copies, type of stationery, destination printer, real-time or batch execution, blackness of print image, redirection of printout to a file, creation of reference files to allow the same set of selected records to be used by another program, saving and naming selections for future use, local and remote printing, etc.
1989	The pitfalls of allowing a to attempt these tasks stem in part from their inherent variability.
1989	For example, a lecturer may have irregular commitments outside the Course, or the institution, which are not easy to record in a (unless complicated data structures are used) and are even harder to gather accurate information about in the first place.
1989	This part is then laminated, with a photograph to become a multi-purpose ID card (for use in the library; presented when collecting LEA award cheques; deposited against software loans at centre reception; displayed on candidates' desks during examinations, used to activate overnight access locks, etc.).
1989	Any office, individual or organization can request special reports from the Registry who will either prepare the reports themselves or will seek the assistance of centre staff.
1989	For more challenging reports, or ones requiring specialist programming skills, unusual access rights, etc. requests are channelled through a registry representative to the information systems team (currently four F l E) in the centre.
1989	Different formulae for this assimilation were proposed and compared using a model of the old and new regulations.
1989	Periodic security audits involving key users and centre staff are carried out, and documentation and training implications are considered.
1989	The Centre has carried out the programming work for all of the systems described above.
1989	The designers have liaised very closely with centre staff.
1989	‘The liaison has been with all of the functional groups within the centre: analysis and programming, operations, user services, communications and technical support and data preparation.
1989	The closeness of consumer and producer has made it easier for the Registry to expect and to receive from the Centre a computing service of commercial standards, especially in terms of quality and meeting deadlines.
1989	The communications infrastructure required by the student management system is also provided by the centre: all of the terminals and printers are in the same cross-campus network as the many hundreds of terminals for academic use (in open access terminal rooms, staff offices, laboratories, etc.).
1989	Centre staff manage SMS development using Project Manager Workbench on a Nimbus AX20.
1992	The register, like other records that a company is required to maintain, may be kept either in bound books or by recording the matter in any other way and, in particular, may be on a or other electronic device so long as the material can be reproduced in legible form and is so reproduced for purposes of inspection or supply of a copy.
1992	By pressing the appropriate buttons on their office linked to The Exchange's automated quotations system (SEAQ) they can execute their clients' instructions at the best available price quoted by market-makers in the shares concerned.
1993	This, implicitly at least, demands the use of major systems, otherwise it would not be possible easily to carry out the necessary regular checks as to whether the various procedures have been undertaken within the prescribed time period.
1991	technological e.g. new systems.
1991	In local government this might take the form of , services;
1992	In fact, with sophisticated programs available, there is no reason why any organization of any size need maintain separate cash books and bank accounts for separate funds.
1985	At the global scale  numerical modelling has developed and was applied to the planetary boundary layer, facilitated by the development of powerful used in short-range forecasting research, and then in the construction of general circulation models and thence models of global climate.
1985	A more dynamic approach of this kind was possible with the advent of which could analyse the necessary amounts of synoptic data.
1985	Secondly, systems technology which is concerned with applications in operations and theoretical development such as game theory.
1985	Prospective physical geographers should take basic courses in calculus, physics, chemistry, engineering, modern biology, and programming.
1988	These included a programming course and an Open-Access course (aimed at ethnic minorities and acting as a bridge into higher education).
1978	Bourne was young, one of the newer breed of policemen; a  graduate and mildly contemptuous of most things antedating the .
1993	He produced a Mattel Speak'n' Spell toy , and Coleman sat down slowly.
1993	He arrived with a Radio Shack hand-held phone dialler and a two-speed microcassette recorder for Coleman to use with the code that had worked so successfully before, based on a standard telephone touch-tone pad.
1993	Apart from the inherent improbability that the Lockerbie investigators never thought to ask for it, that it was left to a clerk to print out a copy on her own initiative before the wiped the record, only to return weeks later from holiday to find that still no one had asked for it, and that the BKA, after being given the list, sat on it for months before passing it along to the Scottish police, there remained the problem of the FBI teletype which left open the possibility that no such bag from Malta was ever loaded on Flight 103.
1993	The baggage entry ‘does not indicate the origin of the bag which was sent for loading on board Pan Am 103.
1993	They had ‘observed an individual approach Coding Station 206 with a single piece of luggage, place the luggage in a luggage container, encode a destination into the and leave without making any notation on a duty sheet’.
1993	The back-channel reports on DEA operations that he had transmitted twice a week from his arrival in Cyprus were on file in a classified data bank, codenamed EMERALD, at Bolling Airforce Base, near Washington, and the first order of business upon his return was a systematic debriefing at a hotel near Fort Meade to fill in the gaps.
1993	Intended as a place where DEA and CIA agents could meet unobserved with informants and clients, as a message drop for CIA arms dealers supplying Iraq and the Afghan rebels, as a waiting room for DEA CIs and couriers from Lebanon, and as a transit point, not just for heroin, but for cash, documents and bootleg software moving to and fro along the Beirut — Nicosia — US pipeline, Eurame, as run by El-Jorr, was more like a low-life social club than a secret intelligence centre.
1993	‘Doesn't that bother you?’ asked Coleman, walking around the desk to see if El-Jorr was eavesdropping, but he was still busy at the terminal in the next room.
1991	He would sympathize with the that puts up its little sign, ‘Memory full’.
1989	Besides, the information is hidden in a .’
1989	Eliot summoned Mona and asked whether she'd had access to the while working for MacQuillan.
1989	Sniffy said they were inmates of Gorstone prison, the document a print-out from the prison .
1989	Some of the dates were release dates but they were not all genuine because one of the prisoners had been able to interfere with the and ‘reduce’ the sentences.
1989	A number of documents had been in the drawers but not a list of codes.
1989	Wickham asked her about two aspects: the whereabouts of her father's list of codes and the ownership of the keys which had been loaned to Ruby Dobby.
1989	‘I took them from her,’ she said instead, fearing mention of police interest would lead on to codes and MacQuillan's business methods.
1989	He showed no surprise when she referred to the list of codes.
1993	Stanfords map and travel bookshop in Covent Garden, London, has installed a system to manage its day-to-day sales and stock as well as its worldwide mail order operation and catalogue production.
1993	The contract went to BDO Binder Hamlyn and Aries Business Systems, which specialises in systems for specialist retailers and distributors who combine mail order with retail sales, and has over 40 sites.
1993	Bookshops this week celebrated the conclusion of its most successful promotion.
1993	books
1993	The Bookseller will publish a special feature on new and forthcoming books in its issue of 26th March.
1993	book prices
1993	Sir, In his letter about the price of books (13th November), Christopher Priest seems to have completely missed the point.
1993	books (and, indeed, a vast number of other books on management) are bought not by individuals but by companies, who can declare such purchases as legitimate expenses, with all that the term implies tax-wise.
1993	In an earlier period there was no great disadvantage in ‘pirating’ books, films, software and other products or violating patents or trademarks on pharmaceutical or consumer products.
1993	India did not want the textbooks that it was exporting to Southeast Asia and Africa to be pirated, and it wanted to ensure a market for its own emerging and pharmaceutical industries.
1993	Another recently asked my advice about the finer points of his own program so that he might catalogue more accurately his card collection, so vast had it become (if any one has a mint Drummahoe No 1, he would be most indebted).
1993	Bing Taylor continues as general manager books and Europe, and Nigel Kenyon-Jones continues with music, video, games and Our Price Video.
1993	Overall, teachers are using a greater mix of materials, including library books, software and interactive video.
1993	Timescale and
1993	The sixth area where one can foresee some substantial change is that of timescale and the use of .
1993	The book trade is relatively undeveloped in its use of to change the whole way in which business is conducted.
1993	All these processes will be helped immeasurably by the imaginative use of technology which, like accountancy, will no longer be seen as a service but as an integral part of the whole process.
1993	Also on the subject of authorship, John Morehen, with a degree of lucidity rare in this area, subjects pieces bearing suspect attributions to Byrd to analysis, and explains how contributions to conclusions may thus be made.
1993	For a judge at the European Court, the answer to this problem is generally provided by the use of .
1992	Visitors young and old let their hair down and enjoyed the entertainment, which ranged from clowns and bouncy castles to games and a disco.
1992	The product will support personal (DOS and Windows access), Apple Macintoshes and Sun workstations.
1992	Provided you can access the Harwell Vax — called HARAN — it is possible to delve into five bibliographic databases covering information on journal articles and patents to details on books and magazines held in the library.
1992	This type of information used to be held on an IBM mainframe , but this closed down for financial reasons.
1992	The children in particular had a great time with games, entertainers and bouncy castles to keep them occupied.
1992	Our EGRESS model, which has received widespread media attention, is a world leader in assessing the safety of people in complex structures.
1993	The rotating particles are videoed and each frame processed by to determine whether and in what quantities the target is present; and whether it is alive or dead.
1993	The venture can result in a generic research programme for the benefit of members, the dissemination of design data, the promotion of codes or the collection and dissemination for world-wide new practice.
1993	By allowing experiments to be performed on a which would be impractical or dangerous to perform in the physical world, it also allows the design engineer to probe new areas.
1993	Without modelling, the engineer is forced to take short cuts by evaluating fewer design options.
1993	Using simulations to complement physical experimentation can reduce the number of design options to be physically tested without compromising the design evaluation.
1993	modelling marries theory and physical experimentation.
1993	Before a can perform a simulation, it requires a blueprint of these physical laws, and that is where CFD comes in.
1993	The number of computational cells in the grid depends upon the nature of the flow, the complexity of the physical geometry it is flowing around, the order of accuracy required, and ultimately, the speed of the and size of its memory.
1993	The speed and cost effectiveness of models has also been recognised by pharmaceutical companies.
1993	In much the same way simulation has been used in bioengineering in the design of prosthesis such as artificial limbs or hips.
1993	modelling is clearly a versatile tool, adapting to a variety of environments, including some in which physical experimentation is dangerous, impractical, or even impossible.
1993	Whatever the driving force behind the use of modelling, it is now installed as the third branch of scientific method, along with theory and experimentation.
1993	Although the principles of the techniques are as old as mathematics itself, the ability to solve the complex equations was only available with the advent of electronic .
1993	Now, i the modern age, it has become a widespread commercial reality.
1993	It has been claimed that interference has disrupted train signals, and electronic equipment from Nintendo Gameboys to video cameras has confused aircraft flight management .
1993	The smog has already claimed victims: in the UK, interference caused a operated crane to drop its load killing one worker; and in Japan, interference caused robots to run amok resulting in two fatalities.
1993	At a time when we are becoming more and more dependent on electronic devices, it is none too early to regulate interference: fly-by-wire aircraft and safety controls are no longer futuristic.
1993	The International Air Transport Association Safety Committee has produced evidence of the serious effects operating electronic equipment in aircraft cabins can have on the flight management .
1993	During a six month period ending in February, one unnamed large European had 16 confirmed incidents involving electronic equipment including portable phones, lap-top and video recorders.
1993	Flight International reported six incidents in which electromagnetic interference from on-board equipment is suspected to have interfered with the flight :
1993	Two passengers were operating lap-top when a Boeing 747-400 started oscillating left and right during flight.
1992	Santa — Enrico Pozza, LASMO Rome officer — called each person in turn onto his knee.
1992	And, according to Richard Smith, services manager, a larger international network that enabled colleagues to flash messages — even long and complex documents — across the globe in seconds would boost efficiency and generate substantial savings.
1992	‘So while getting a document or disk from, say, London to Indonesia can take up to three days by post or courier, with electronic mail a valid print-out will be to hand in next to no time.
1992	‘At the moment the team is coached by Andrew Soper from the department, although he won't thank me for telling everyone,’ said Suzanne Isaacs of the Personnel Department at Broadgate.
1992	So while a degree in geology or BTec in sciences might be deemed useful and relevant, a diploma in, say, Greek cookery would probably not qualify!
1992	Airport staff put the information into LASMO's system at check-in, and this is kept up-to-date throughout the duration of any offshore visit.
1993	A NEW mainframe has been installed in the Fettes Row data centre to support the Branch Banking System throughout the UK.
1993	The new also provides an excellent platform on which to base new Columbus applications.
1993	The increased processing capacity is required to support the underlying growth trend of 17 per cent per annum in usage and to cater for the introduction of new applications.
1993	The new has some state of the art fibre optic channels as well as the conventional copper ones but these will not initially be used and will come into play as new device types are acquired in the future.
1993	This will include 5 tonnes of paper, 4 tonnes of mixed colour letter paper and 3 tonnes of white letter paper.
1993	The information was then fed into a which produced individual body reports together with advice on how to become more fit and healthy.
1993	Measures of availability and response times at the Bank's main frame are also taken each month.
1993	The measures also assist in tracking the impact of service improvement initiatives such as the recent installation of the new main-frame .
1993	The response times, as measured at the central , show that there were no days in April when response times exceeded 2 seconds.
1993	The banking hall was partitioned to contain the noise of the new but the hall has now been restored to its original open form.
1993	Another difference was ‘it was all quill pens — obviously there were no although there was an adding machine,’ he said.
1992	Fred Guy (Services);
1992	A highlight was a party in the children's hospital where we gave presents to all of the children, mums and staff as well as handing over medical supplies and a lap-top .
1992	Three new rooms have been constructed within the attic of the Lawnmarket Building for use by Services.
1992	VISCOUNT (originally an acronym for Viewdata Interlibrary System Communications Network) is a network of libraries organised by LASER (London and South East Region).
1992	Teleworkers — people who never actually go to work, but work from home using linked to their employer's headquarters — are a comparatively new phenomenon but the idea has great potential for the scattered rural population of Scotland.
1992	Working from a terminal in her home, some 200 miles to the north of the Library's Edinburgh headquarters, Mrs Graham.
1992	However, unlike online searching, there is no charge for connect time.
1993	Considerable enhancements are being made to the services in the Library and the Bookshop through new systems.
1993	A new system has been installed which will eventually bring together the membership data base, accounting system, and word processing facilities.
1993	Finalise transfer to new system, thereby integrating main Institute IT needs.
1990	Besides this, both the Data Protection Act (1984), which applies to , and the Access to Personal Files Act (1987) give people a statutory right of access to information held about them by the Social Work Department.
1990	based systems for monitoring the expenditure of DSS transfer are being explored.
1990	Work is well in hand to ensure District HQ and Practice Teams have access to the Council's mainframe financial systems for budget management, payments and invoicing.
1990	Radio Forth will be hooked into this information which will appear on its screens.
1990	Here, we also have a fully networked system which would have been impossible to install at Dean.
1990	‘This allows us to send electronic mail, E-mail, which reduces the need to use paper and is far quicker.
1990	I can write something on the , then send it to everyone else in the building at the press of a button.
1990	‘There are two trainees at the moment attached to the Services and Personnel Services Divisions of the Department of Management and Information Services.
1990	‘Teleworking is the use of modern technology to allow people to work at home or at a local telecentre.
1990	Other posts could be ‘teleworked’ and anyone interested in the possibility of working from home by link should contact their departmental personnel officer to discuss the matter.
1990	Armed with a screwdriver in one hand and a bag of chips in the other, the staff of the Co-ordination Section can be seen floating in and out of offices ensuring that Lothian Highways' and peripherals operate efficiently.
1990	Yes it's the phrase ‘Co-ordination Section’.
1990	The Co-ordination Section has been in existence for over five years and too much time is wasted just saying the name.
1990	On the shores of uncharted CCT requirements the Co-ordination Section has realised that it had to come up with a leaner, meaner, faster name for the Section.
1990	So no longer do we have to struggle with Co-ordination Section when the phone rings and we rush to answer it grabbing pen and paper.
1990	As part of this process hardware requirements at Police Headquarters to assist with enforcement policy and personnel will be reviewed.
1990	Report on review of hardware requirements at Police Headquarters.
0000	I did ring Agnes away back in January and thanked her for having you; I was ringing her partly to tell her that, strangely, one of her Hungarian friends from Southampton (called ) is now the expert at Chambers, whose services I've been using recently to accomplish the final formatting of my questionnaire and piece of sample text.
0000	I expect Hamish will be writing again pretty soon again too, but here I am sitting at the anyway, putting off writing a series of begging letters to friends and connections in various educational and other institutions and organizations asking them to submit to Chambers Harrap (as we now are) all partable-with unpublished bumf (memos, minutes, notices, reports, etc, etc) to swell the ‘ephemera’(new stretched meaning) content of the British National Corpus of English.
0000	Yeah some things has, as I said we work off these er graph papers and they, they do them now by .
1991	The Why Bird is an inquisitive cloth bird with a Welsh accent and a personal .
1989	Our information sources were being developed and made more rapidly available by access to a central in line with police methods.
1980	I was a bank clerk in the days before , when the signature on every cheque was scrutinised before the cheque was entered — by hand — in the ledger.
1988	If that were so then could well do our arguing for us.
1988	We have developed superb processing systems for thinking: as in mathematics and sorting.
1988	If we did not programme correctly, they would also get very confused.
1988	For example a salesman may operate with his own briefcase unit which he plugs in to the telephone system when he wants to obtain or transfer information.
1988	There may be central but even these may not be required if each salesman (or a group) hall a micro-computer and printer at home.
1988	We gather that information through reading, asking, listening, consulting and watching both real action and screens of different sorts.
1988	We feed the information into a and the does the processing for us.
1988	For example, the "optimising" type of design can be taken over by .
1988	If we consider the mathematics of combinations we must come to the conclusion that the pattern making activity of the mind is far better designed for conceptual thinking than any .
1988	Nevertheless we must delight in as our processing slaves and we must promote them rapidly to do more and more thinking — stopping short of allowing ourselves to become slaves to them.
1984	programming was the single largest employment activity;
1984	One-third of the 202 students looking for work were hoping/planning to become programmers: this was the largest single category.
1989	Both kinds of data may be organised in two ways: a) On a
1989	If you take the SIL Field Methods Course you will be taught to file and process your language materials on a , which can save you from many tedious tasks and which often produces more accurate results.
1989	However, you will still need to make some use of notebooks and know how to organise papers such as printouts.
1989	If you do not have a or you are daunted by them (or your breaks down within a week of your arrival in a remote village) you will obviously have more papers to keep track of.
1989	But whether you use a or not there are three principles to remember at all times: a) Keep your filing up to date.
1989	Copy all your disks and update them whenever you visit your headquarters.
1989	If you own a it is worthwhile entering all your vocabulary on to a disk from early on in your programme.
1989	A DICTIONARY
1989	When the above entry is printed out according to the SIL MANUSCRIPT (MS) programme it appears like this: Many people will find it preferable to type the words of their dictionary in alphabetical order so that the prints them out in alphabetical order without further programming.
1989	However, those with more expertise can type them in any order, if they wish, and use the SORT component of the TA programme (see below) to alphabetise them before printing out.
1989	Another programme — TEXT ANALYSIS (TA)— can reverse your dictionary for you, but unless you are fairly expert in the use of we would advise leaving the reversal until someone who is expert can set up TA for you.
1989	when you start learning a language you are constantly collecting new words, so even if you have a and intend to use it for producing a dictionary you may still wish to have your vocabulary in a more accessible form than on a disk, at least for the first few months.
1989	For the Jur Modo entry above the card entry looked like this: The grave accents on alato mark low tone, which was shown in the entry by lll after the word.
1989	You can do the same thing on a file, deleting each phonetic entry and replacing it with the phonemic transcription or an orthographic one.
1989	As with TA, unless you are fond of playing with programmes ask someone more expert to set up CC for you.
1989	It is obviously useful to be able to look up words that you can't remember in a dictionary, but in addition you will find that the more you work on your dictionary, whether it is on a or on cards, the more you memorise your vocabulary.
1989	There is a programme called FINDPHONE (FF) which can help you in your phonological analysis.
1989	The speech box plugs into your tape recorder on one side and your on the other.
1989	You let your tape recorder play a phrase and CECIL causes the waveform of the phrase to appear on the screen.
1989	This programme comes with FINDPHONE and can be applied to the same data to select different types of data for different grammatical purposes, e.g. all words can be extracted and put in a separate file to add to your lexicon.
1989	After that you need to type it either on to a or a typewriter and provide a free translation to go with it.
1989	Another programme that has been designed for work on texts is INTERLINEAR TEXT (IT).
1989	However, both TA and IT are relatively complicated to master and you re recommended to let someone else set them up or run them for you unless you are really eager to advance your expertise.
1989	See that you write or print out from your a clear explanation of each part of your analysis as you do it.
1989	A is a wonderfully useful tool but it will be only a nuisance to your wife if all the language data is locked up on disks and she has nothing to look at in a spare five minutes.
1989	Be considerate over your handwriting, your expertise or lack of it, or anything else which might become an irritation to your fellow workers.
1989	Cockroaches crawl inside machinery such as tape recorders and and gum up the works.
1989	Of course, dustproof bags, cases for machines, and strong plastic covers for papers and boxes of disks can be a great help, but above all, keep a constant check on all your materials and if you are away from your house for a long time, lock them all up in a metal trunk or barrel and ask a local friend to check your house for termites from time to time .
1985	I had just been reading in the Daily Minute about the string of beatings and manslaughters in Rosalind Court: the night before last a Jap expert and a German dentist had been found in a parking lot with their faces stomped off.
1989	The second route was to give the library user direct access to those machine-readable bibliographic records from which card and output microform (COM) catalogues had been produced for more than a decade through shared centralized cataloguing.
1989	With automated bibliographic files and online catalogues, browsing has also been applied to searching in systems.
1989	Apted places browsing in the category of specific browsing in that it must start "with a definition of requirements" and is systematic.
1989	The purpose of the Okapi research is to test the applicability, in the online catalogue context, of findings from research in interactive  systems, cognitive psychology and information retrieval (IR).
1989	By each terminal was a prominent notice displaying"OKAPI '86 is an experimental catalogue for subject searches…
1989	There are signs that users may come to expect a reasonable tolerance of miskeyings from any interactive system.
1989	One user interviewed by Richard Jones said (of spelling correction) that he "thought did that anyway" .
1989	There was a measure of agreement that Okapi was easier to learn, particularly by users with little previous experience of .
1989	People who were familiar with (terminals to the Polytechnic network for example) or with LlBERTAS generally found LlBERTAS easier to use; they often found Okapi's coloured keys more difficult than LIBERTAS's mnemonic commands (LIBERTAS is not what most people would understand by a command-driven system, but most of the choices and options are single letters or words like BACK, and these have to be followed by pressing the RETURN key).
1989	Add this book to the list you told the to remember.
1985	The , relevant in materials science as in all other spheres of modern science, enables analysis of structural and microstructural problems to be made by using, for example, the Finite Element method, while computer-controlled machines simplify the problems of data gathering so that reliable information on materials properties can be obtained rapidly.
1985	Modern configurational analysis (see, for example, Hopfinger (1972)) may afford methods of rigorously relating molecular energetics to mechanical properties — but for any except the simplest molecules the size of the required at present precludes the use of this method.
1985	The relations between forces and displacements may then be expressed in matrix form and, using modern , many practical elastic and other problems may be solved by manipulation of this matrix.
1985	This matrix may have as many elements as the size of the will allow and, once set up, the solution of the matrix equation subject to the imposed boundary conditions may be found by standard numerical procedures.
1985	The book by Zienciewicz (1977) gives full details of the finite element method with programs.
1985	In many modern machines the stress and strain values are collected digitally and processed by a small to give direct values of and tan —.
1982	Using a cybernetic model (an analogical comparison between minds and ) they worked out the thesis that man has, through language (that is, through verbal behaviour) "the capacity to use plans to construct plans to guide human behaviour" .
1986	If that was all there was to it, we should simply be highly sophisticated digital .
1991	In simple terms, the surgeon supervises and controls the robot from a terminal, using information that he receives from sensors at the tool-end of the robot, known as the end-effector.
1991	At the Day School the science tutors left behind their spectrometers, and chemicals and equipped themselves with whisks, wine and tantalising samples of their edible ‘experiments’.
1993	It says it will also be developing an advanced database enabling its overseas offices to access up-to-date information outside UK office hours.
1993	In the supermarket booksellers with their dizzying displays, their pyramids of bestsellers, one is intimidated, constantly lost in the wealth of glittering titles, bemused by a request answered by a which indicates the number of copies held of the title one has asked for, the price, position on the shelf, shelf position in the shop.
1993	Other recent Hodder acquisitions include world rights in Challenge , the story of the British Steel Challenge Yacht Race by Chay Blythe and Elaine Thompson , out next autumn; a history of the games company Nintendo,David Sheff ‘s Game Over , bought at auction from Random House US, also for 1993; and a book on Windsor Castle by leading heritage author Mark Girouard , bought from Mike Smith at Curtis Brown for next June/July.
1993	Such is the state of technology for the registration and running of club membership lists that hobby-based clubs for children or adults like this, run by publishers, could well proliferate, and lively booksellers might do well to get in on the act.
1993	But the would do it.
1993	It would get our own printout .
1993	She said she would put on the or something like
1993	local managers have got acc I mean f pe people using the account house or the erm one of the other major new systems
1993	I know he's starting all these things, see his and that?
1993	I don't know what the parents of some of my students are going to think when I'm showing them how to do G C S E maths on the instead of the rather .
1993	Soft boot, restart your .
1993	on quite a few occasions, Windows ran until the first time I rebooted the .
1993	I probably, I probably knelt on it when I was getting the .
1993	Good name for a .
1993	Brenda is looking for a at the moment.
1993	and I think for four hundred and eighty quid I could get a very nice real .
1993	As soon as you buy it it's obsolete, because it's a .
1988	It governs the behavior of transistors and integrated circuits, which are the essential components of electronic devices such as televisions and , and is also the basis of modern chemistry and biology.
1988	We do, however, know all about how memories work.
1988	I shall therefore discuss the psychological arrow of time for .
1988	I think it is reasonable  to assume that the arrow for is the same as that for humans.
1988	If it were not, one could make a killing on the stock exchange by having a that would remember tomorrow's prices!
1988	A memory is basically a device containing elements that can exist in either of two states.
1988	Before an item is recorded in a 's memory, the memory is in a disordered state, with equal probabilities for the two possible states.
1988	However, in order to make sure that the memory is in the right state, it is necessary to use a certain amount of energy (to move the bead or to power the , for example).
1988	Thus the heat expelled by the 's cooling fan means that when a records an item in memory, the total amount of disorder in the universe still goes up.
1988	The direction of time in which a remembers the past is the same as that in which disorder increases.
1988	Just as a , we must remember things in the order in which entropy increases.
1988	Even with a , it was reckoned it would take at least four years, and the chances were very high that one would make at least one mistake, probably more.
1982	Each organisation takes a different route in deciding whether it needs help in personnel management.
1982	Some decide that have no place whatsoever, some regard as cheap and reliable "clerical" labour fit for nothing other than "payroll crunching" , others find a niche for computing in the successful management of the business.
1982	The TSB falls primarily into the third category; while taking advantage of the ability of to process its payroll, the benefits of computerization extend far beyond, into the heart of the bank's planning and policy making decisions.
1982	Where possible, data are collected direct from banking systems.
1982	The programme included: Appreciation courses for top management Operative courses in maintaining the systems Technical courses in extracting, analysing and interpreting data At each stage of development we have had detailed discussions with the Banking, Insurance and Finance Union.
1982	4.
1982	Modelling aid Retrieval from a conventional filing system relies on either alphabetic or numeric indexation but the use of a enables data to be retrieved on a range of factors, either individually or simultaneously.
1982	In both the Branch Establishments Scheme and the Manpower Planning Information System, considerable use is made of the ability of to perform large volumes of calculations with consistent accuracy.
1982	Models enable complex relationships to be set up on the in numerical form rather than in the form of subjective statements.
1982	In this paper, Rod Kitchin describes how, with IMS and bureau guidance, BAA set about computerising their personnel information systems.
1982	During the early years of the organization's existence, these problems were foreseen and a discussion paper which proposed a simple based manpower information system was written in 1971.
1982	This would give the staff involved in the creation, updating and processing of a data  base (the basic information to be stored in the ).
1982	Further, this type of approach would soon bring the concept of a based system into disrepute.
1982	The Facility
1982	It was decided to set up the PMIS as part of an "on-line" system (directly connected to the ) using a terminal for input and output.
1982	The BAA held a large amount of information relating to employees.
1982	As the BAA in use in September 1977 was not capable of supporting an on-line system, it was decided to use a bureau.
1982	On the recommendation of the IMS, an outside bureau offering sharing was chosen which was able to provide the facilities and support required.
1982	Moreover, the language involved was readily usable by staff with limited experience.
1982	This team was provided with the part-time support of a clerk/typist to operate the terminal for updating the data base as necessary.
1982	From the outset a policy was adopted which aimed at eliminating unnecessary jargon and the mystique normally associated with .
1982	It was made clear that such tasks could be carried out very quickly and easily using the .
1982	In order to produce the majority of regular returns directly from the , each employee record was extended by adding the following fields of information.
1982	Grade on joining BAA Date of present grade Reason for leaving BAA (retirement, resignation etc) ATTITB occupational code Registered disabled marker Ex civil servant marker In order to collect this information a listing was produced from the Gatwick"persons' data base.
1982	This instructed the to add the new data to each employee's record, thus extending the data base.
1982	These movements were: new appointments transfers to a different location resignations promotion or transfers within the same location change of name input forms were therefore designed to cover each type of movement indicated above.
1982	Where possible, information was coded to cut down on storage and processing costs.
1982	These programs will be stored by the in readiness for use by the specific location.
1982	At this late stage, the PMIS team was asked to assist by creating a relevant data base so that information associated with the scheme could be processed.
1982	listings were then produced which ranked jobs in score order.
1982	The staff from both these sections have been trained to operate the terminal and use programs designed by the team.
1982	Existing basic pay information was obtained from the BAA and associated with the appropriate person's record.
1982	It was then decided to analyse this information with the use of a and so, once again, the team were asked to undertake a further project.
1982	Wherever possible, replies were coded on the questionnaire in order to simplify the reporting system.
1982	The information contained on the questionnaires was then copied to input forms specially designed for  this purpose.
1982	A variety of details relating to senior staff, including length of service both in the present job and in the BAA and date of retirement, can be shown on a report and copies are sent to both the Chairman and Managing Director at regular intervals.
1982	Staff in other personnel sections at Head Office have also been instructed in operating terminals to access and update their specific data base  files and, within limits, to process information.
1982	In addition, personnel staff at all locations have been involved in collecting input data for the system and in receiving results in the form of listings or summaries.
1982	A number of returns which were prepared manually at various locations are now produced by the , resulting in saving of staff time and effort.
1982	Moving In-house From the outset it has been the intention to switch the PMIS from the bureau to the internal BAA's data processing branch .
1982	3.1 The Potential of Real Time Applications: A Man's View
1982	In this presentation, Jeremy Rivers reviews the traditional use of in enterprises where they have tended to be used for large weekly or monthly batched jobs, such as stock control, invoicing or payroll.
1982	He discusses the problems which occur in getting the user department and the department to agree upon a specification and the prolonged timescales often involved.
1982	He then contrasts this with an ideal world, where users with their own display can access any information at the touch of a button.
1982	This concept is then expanded by looking at specific areas within the personnel function which can benefit from this approach, and the various solutions to these requirements are reviewed.
1982	It is stressed that the main concern should be the information needs of the personnel function, rather than concentrating too early upon solutions.
1982	Although I have been billed as a "man" — I have been employed in the marketing and services side of IBM for 17 years — for over half this time I have been a line manager.
1982	The following presentation is divided into: 1 A short review of the traditional use of in enterprises.
1982	2 An insight into the use of as a decision support tool for management.
1982	1 A Short Review of the Traditional Use of in Enterprises
1982	So many people, just like professionals from other professions, tend to get over excited by their subject, and finish up concentrating upon "gee whizz" things, such as how many megaglob of chips your £1 buys and how extraordinarily clever are.
1982	Many of you will have experienced what I call, the traditional use of , outlined in figure 1.
1982	At some stage someone, either in the department, or in the user department, will think of using the to assist in the operation of their department.
1982	Contact is then set up between these groups and eventually a member of the department, called, usually, a systems analyst, will be assigned to assess the feasibility of such a system, and a communication or dialogue is begun between the systems analyst and members of the user department.
1982	Now the systems analyst has a pretty good knowledge of the capability of the , and the user has a fairly good idea of the problem in his department.
1982	The user often replies with a question about what the is capable of doing, and so on until common ground begins to be established.
1982	A specification for the system which will satisfy the user's requirements begins to evolve.
1982	At this stage the specification is passed to another man, called a programmer, who converts the specification into code which is readable by the .
1982	On the left hand side of the room were the user management, from senior managers through to the factory controllers, and on the right hand side of the room were the management team.
1982	The people never understood their requirements!
1982	The men said, rubbish.
1982	How can you expect a man to understand in detail all aspects of a user's requirements?
1982	A recent survey of managers in the UK gave the rather obvious answer that they kept missing project deadlines because of shortcomings in the following areas: CAUSE RANKING Program Maintenance 1 Estimating 2 Staff Shortage 3 Project Management 4 Planning 5 What was not considered in the results of the survey were the following further considerations, which in my experience are at least as significant.
1982	Capacity Software Facilities Staff Quality Budget User Commitment One of the key elements in this backlog crisis in many enterprises today is undoubtedly lack of experienced and skilled staff, a shortcoming made more critical by the sheer complexity of systems.
1982	2 An Insight into How Should Be Used as a Decision Support Tool for Management
1982	Why not do the same today with ?
1982	Why wait for the expert from  the department?
1982	A terminal, these days usually a Visual Display Unit, can be compared with a window through which you can scan your data or information.
1982	This VDU is connected to a of some kind, either locally with, usually, a length of co-ax — like a TV aerial or remotely, via a telephone line connection.
1982	Connected to the is some form of storage device which enables information to be accessed and updated quickly.
1982	To be a success, personal computing needs to be done without detailed knowledge.
1982	The current industry buzzword for this capability is "user friendliness" .
1982	Ideally, you should be able to go to your VDU terminal, pass through the necessary security controls, input information, have the check it for you, enquire on particular elements or records of information, produce ad hoc or regular print outs and produce graphical output with simple commands.
1982	All of this should be done using simple instructions to the which are as close to normal English as possible.
1982	In my experience systems can be divided into three categories:(i) Operational systems, the area where have traditionally been used to process large volumes of information on a regular basis.
1982	(ii) Decision support systems, where the is used as a management tool, accessing information at the touch of a button, when the provision of this information, quickly and accurately, is needed to allow management to make informed decisions, rather then manage by hunch.
1982	Now the major difference between these two categories is that with operational systems it is relatively easy for the user to define his requirements, in detail, in advance, for a specialist to program into the , whereas decision support systems, by their very nature, can only be defined in advance in global terms.
1982	(iii) Planning systems use the to analyse trends, set and monitor budgets, try different approaches to future needs.
1982	Some users also adopt this approach for category (i), but the more usual approach is to adopt a pre-written package, or use conventional skilled professionals to produce a tailored solution, provided changes are allowable and ad hoc reporting is also permitted.
1982	Thirdly, because there is no involvement with a professional, there will be no interpersonal communication problem to overcome.
1982	Which means that the is being used, as it should be, as a user management tool which can vastly improve personnel management effectiveness.
1982	Most enterprises have been controlling stock on their for years!
1982	IBM manufactures, sells and supports a complete range of products from the IBM Personal to the largest of main frame via minis and small main frames.
1982	Micro or personal
1982	The micro is currently much in vogue, and indeed my presentation is followed by a presentation specifically on the subject of micro .
1982	The type of system used is very much a secondary consideration, and will depend upon such considerations as: enterprise size/number of employees number of physical locations range of personnel applications to be attempted whether enterprise is growing, contracting, static supply of professionals available budget available What is certain is that the personnel function needs a shared information system.
1982	Once a micro is connected into a shared data base, it becomes an intelligent terminal, capable of carrying out some functions, such as data entry standalone, but thereafter used to interrogate the shared information, alongside conventional visual displays.
1982	Key technical issues are: whether the operational systems such as payroll can be developed quickly, despite application backlogs, and changed easily as requirements inevitably change; whether personal computing software is available to set up your Personnel Information System quickly and flexibly without direct recourse to professionals, allowing flexible ad hoc reporting and rapid response to continually changing requirements; whether summaries of this information can be extracted to enable planning, monitoring, controlling and modelling applications to be carried out by the personnel planners.
1982	Because personnel tends to be low on departments' priority lists, you are very likely to have to go it alone, at least initially.
1982	However, installing a medium or large with pre-packaged software  severely increases the risk.
1982	This way the complexities will be removed, and personnel people will be able to concentrate upon the management issues of implementation, such as staff consultations, training, and requirements definition.
1982	Once you have decided upon the particular requirements of your organisation, then you can consider the size of you need.
1982	by David King Sales Development Manager Apple (UK) Limited
1982	The mini and mainframe manufacturers were slow to realise the enormous potential of single board microcomputers based on these microprocessors and it was left to the electronics hobbyists and entrepreneurs, who responded by giving birth to the microcomputer industry.
1982	In many ways the development of Apple symbolises the development of the industry as a whole and it is with specific reference to Apple Inc that David King attempts in this paper to put the micro into its true context.
1982	The prototype Apple personal was developed by two enthusiasts for their own club in a garage in a town just north of San Francisco in California in 1975, and was sold originally in kit form.
1982	As the wealth of software grew so did sales of the , and distributors were established in countries throughout the world.
1982	The capabilities of the desk-top micro are similar to the larger mini and mainframe .
1982	The differences lie essentially in the speed of information processing, which is much slower, the capacity to store enormous amounts of data, which is reduced, and the cost of ownership, which bears no relationship whatsoever to the cost of owning a larger mini or mainframe .
1982	This cost factor alone has brought the power of a for storing, retrieving and processing information quickly and very efficiently to the wealth of small businesses and professions who previously could not even have considered computerisation.
1982	Writers of applications software were quick to realise the mass market potential of business software and in the UK especially a wealth of talent exists for producing low-cost packaged software for an ever-increasing range of applications.
1982	Personal for management use is a major area of Apple usage, where planning, analysing, managing and assistance with decision evaluation have made the micro a versatile and powerful tool for managers of all descriptions, saving time and money and helping them to be far more effective in their jobs.
1982	Applications software for financial modelling/planning, project management, data-base management systems and many others will make Apple as a management tool as important on the manager's desk as the telephone.
1982	Over 25 per cent of all Apples ever manufactured are used in schools, colleges, universities, training companies and training departments to teach literacy and awareness.
1982	This is essential to prepare our children for an ever-changing world and to retrain employees whose traditional role within a company will change with the advent of in general and micros in particular.
1982	Personal like the Apple are by their very nature easy to learn to use and simple to operate.
1982	in general practice are a typical example where the quality of health care has improved, thanks to the introduction of microcomputers.
1982	As with many other professionals, the personnel manager's personal desk-top is emerging as an invaluable tool.
1982	Information on employees may exist on a company's mini or mainframe but is stored in a form not usually usable or accessible by the personnel department, and mainframe information does not lend itself to interrogation on a real time basis.
1982	The system should be easy to use, be addressed in plain English and typically would require no knowledge of or programming.
1982	The result is quick and easy problem solving for the personnel manager at a cost of hardware and software which is in all probability a small fraction of the cost  of having programs developed, especially on the mini or mainframe .
1982	The overall effect on the payroll of salary/wage increases, changes in holiday arrangements or hourly rates, pension contributions and so forth can be precisely predicted using a model.
1982	A system can speed up recruitment administration by a factor of about 10, and enable the updating of records and the production of letters to be performed as a single operation.
1982	A good system will reduce the processing of applicants to about one tenth of the time required under a manual system.
1982	A report generator is essentially a means of instructing the to produce a report in whatever form may be required, by typing in a series of English-type commands on the terminal.
1982	Information  handling is a highly demanding exercise as far as are concerned — much more demanding than carrying out complex calculations — and at the present time micros do not provide the kind of flexibility and robustness which is required.
1982	4.2 — The Use of in Job Evaluation
1982	This paper gives details of the experience of the Electricity Council in using facilities during the negotiation of a Job Evaluation Scheme for 30,000 technical engineering staff.
1982	The paper explains the use of to assess the effects of varying the structure of the scheme in terms of altering the weight attached to different aspects of a job.
1982	The thrust of Peter Roper's paper is to outline the practical use that can be made of technology in Industrial Relations applications, not to give detailed descriptions of programs or suites.
1982	A score was assigned for a given profile, and facilities played a key role in the development of this area.
1982	It was in negotiations concerning these core and grey areas that the major use of was made.
1982	The first use of the was to assist in selecting the sample by analysing the percentage of jobs by location, function and grade.
1982	The availability of facilities permitted investigation of a large number of options in this area.
1982	Judgements about the acceptability of a given ranking were clearly to some degree subjective, but the provided a fast and accurate analysis of the effects of different options.
1982	As the assessments were received, the aid of the was also enlisted to ensure that they were consistent.
1982	Data on the key properties of posts, namely current grade, total score, job family (function) and location, were extracted from the mainframe based data sets and stored on a desk top system based on Tektronix 4050 series graphics machines.
1982	It is necessary to win over the negotiators to the idea of using such a model, and resistance is likely to focus on the idea that negotiating is a matter of judgement and cannot be mechanised.
1982	As in so many applications, particularly in the personnel field, it is necessary to make it clear that the technology is an aid to managerial judgement and not a replacement for it.
1982	A reputation had been built up over several years for the use of in the fields of manpower planning, personnel statistics and other industrial relations applications.
1982	It can also introduce to the management the idea of direct support from systems during negotiations, making acceptance of a more fundamental package easier.
1982	4.3 In Negotiation
1982	British Airways' use of in managing staff.
1982	Three parts to presentation: a) The Industrial Relations Environment and Specification b) The Technical Solution c) Demonstration and Questions
1982	The Technical System
1982	On-line VDU connected to British Airways DEC10 should be  available to demonstrate this set of programmes.
1982	Clearly, the provided the ideal way to process the mass of information contained in personnel records in offices and depots all over the United Kingdom.
1982	Yet the need to harness the ability of the to monitor a dynamic situation far faster than is possible with manual methods was as pressing for SGB, with a Group payroll at the time approaching £13 million, as for the very large organisation able to make substantial investment in computerised personnel records.
1982	Such, then, were the problems facing personnel management: the need to harness the ability of the was recognised, but there appeared to be no orthodox route to this end which was also cost-effective.
1982	What modules of data were already available as building blocks for programs without a major investment in new software? 2.
1982	At this stage SGB Group already had some 12 years' experience in processing by its main business systems.
1982	Since virtually everyone working for the Group in Britain was paid by , the most reliable and immediate source of data would be found in the existing salary and wages software.
1982	SGB's approach to computerised personnel records therefore incorporated from the start a facility to interrogate the Group (initially an ICL 1300, later an ICL 1904E and currently a Burroughs 6700 system) by means of a visual display unit on the desk of the Personnel Manager.
1982	Before leaving his desk the supplies a printout of each location to be visited showing the individual name, job title, man number, depot number, hourly/weekly/monthly paid, age, birth date, service, joining date, marital status, salary or wage, total numbers by payroll and average salary or wage.
1982	Today the dialogue is exclusively with the , which cannot start rumours.
1982	The amount of time needed to obtain answers to inquiries falls and with it the time that has to be paid for.
1982	As soon as one person's work has been built into the , it stays there and goes on working for as long as needed.
1982	You can plug these into an ordinary 13 amp socket at your remotest depot and call up the , no matter how far away, via the normal GPO telephone system.
1982	Scientific applications and various developments to production planning systems were added and the Services Division was formed as part of the Finance Directorate.
1982	Furthermore, the very frequency of legislative change caused a higher premium to be placed on the flexibility of any system.
1982	Thirdly, the growth of computerisation within the organisation allied to the advent of newer technologies meant that the ICL 1900 series were being phased out and needed to be replaced with systems which would meet company needs through the 1980's.
1982	A major review of company strategy began in 1975 and resulted in two key decisions.
1982	In addition, there is substantial use of mini or micro , word processors and other information processing or communication services.
1982	To complement the database operation of the 3033, an IBM 4341 processor provides a wide range of processing facilities and interfaces with other systems to the terminal user, via the time sharing service, running CMS under VM370.
1982	The third processor, an IBM 3031, is used by the Services Division for development work and is shortly to be replaced by a second 4341 processor.
1982	Work began in early 1978 on the problems associated with replacing the existing Payroll and Personnel Systems which were run on the ICL with a single integrated system to be run on the new IBM processors.
1982	The objectives for the system were:(i) To design a "tailor made" system.
1982	(ii) To have for each employee a single record containing all personnel and payroll details held on a central database.
1982	With the introduction of such a large development, obviously extensive changes were going to be likely, not only in terms, but also in the administration of payroll and personnel records and in the organisational requirements for the new system.
1982	Reporting to the Steering Committee was a working party which dealt with the overall management of the project and acted as a direct liaison between staff, payroll staff and personnel staff.
1982	In order to meet all the requirements of the payroll a large amount of support  was necessary, particularly from the Services Division, even after the system had gone "live" .
1982	This meant a heavy involvement at senior management level and a heavy workload for both the Services Division and the new Payroll/Personnel Departments in order to implement and operate a system which had such a radical effect on the organisation and administration of payroll and personnel records.
1982	It must also be remembered that the installation was new in that the company had only recently "gone" IBM.
1982	Powerful software exists which can greatly simplify the task of implementing and using systems.
1982	Starting at the end we have machine code.
1982	In machine code, one instruction corresponds directly to one of the fundamental operations which are hardwired into the .
1982	This code is machine specific; that is, it will run only on the type of for which it was written.
1982	Assembler is less orientated than machine code.
1982	Like machine code, assembler is specific.
1982	There are standards associated with these languages so that in theory a program written for one type of will run on another.
1982	All the languages considered so far are highly flexible; they can be used to write almost any type of system.
1982	Only the user can make this decision; here are some simple guidelines which should help: Before even considering which to buy or whether to use a bureau, it is important to define precisely what the system must do.
1982	Installing any new system can be a traumatic experience.
1982	Packages will be attractive if it is important to make use of an existing or if a quick and simple solution is required and users are willing to tolerate restrictions.
1982	The power of these systems to manage themselves and simplify the interface with users comes from the large amount of power which they use.
1982	Currently such systems are available only on larger in-house and on bureaux.
1982	The user is prompted for this information line by line: EMP.NO: 123 NAME: JONES DEPT: FINANCE (The requests are shown underlined).
1982	by Peter Watsham The Shop Group
1982	In this paper, Peter Watsham describes a range of personnel activities which lend themselves to assistance, examines the role of small machines in relation to these, and presents an appraisal of what is currently available.
1982	In 1980 he moved to the industry to develop the use of microcomputers in the personnel field.
1982	In order to identify the scope for use, let us consider the tasks involved in a fairly large company's centralised recruitment of a number of graduates and their subsequent employment.
1982	It will therefore be wise to record details of job changes and about leavers No doubt there are gaps in my scenario, but the range of activity I have described provides ample scope for the beneficial use of , so let us see how they can be used In doing so I shall make particular reference to the value of microcomputers.
1982	Microcomputers are often described as personal In fact it can be quite helpful to think of them in this way when considering the differences between them and mainframe or minicomputers Usually microcomputers are used by only one person at a time; for example, a personnel manager might have one on his desk top which he uses to examine trends in recruitment.
1982	Unlike the large , they deal with one job at a time.
1982	Moreover, the equipment that sits on the manager's desk is all that is required — the 's intelligence is housed within the one unit.
1982	A complete microcomputer system will generally comprise: i) the computer/processor itself, with a large amount of memory a workspace for storing instructions and data; ii) a screen and keyboard; iii) probably a printer; iv) some kind of external storage device — usually disk drives There is one major difference between microcomputers and other larger It concerns the way in which information is stored by the .
1982	Even if access to data is restricted through the use of passwords when calling it up from the , it is often felt that data are not secure and confidentiality may be breached.
1982	Once the microcomputer has been switched off the data is only available from one or the disks — it is no longer in the 's memory.
1982	Thus confidential data can be stored on such a disk and the user of this data can physically remove it, even take it home with him if he so desires, thereby ensuring that the information cannot be seen by any unauthorised persons This control over sensitive data coupled with the fact that the is personal to one user at a time gives the operator a greater sense of confidence in, and control over, the machine he is using.
1982	Let us now return to consider the kind of assistance one might expect from in relation to the particular areas of personnel work referred to earlier.
1982	the preparation of quite large amounts of text (letters, job descriptions, contracts) with a considerable amount of repetition of common material; 2. the creation and maintenance of files containing a mass of details about people and their subsequent analysis to provide information in a wide variety of forms for many different purposes Both these activities can be considerably simplified and streamlined using Word processing systems are eminently suited to the first.
1982	Without digressing into the subject of word processing in itself, which would probably require a paper all of its own, suffice it to say that word processing programs on enable letters and any other documents to be created, corrected if necessary, then stored on disk or tape ready for printing or alteration at a later data In this example a general letter inviting a candidate to interview could be drawn up and then only the details specific to each candidate need be added before printing the letter.
1982	The great advantages of using a lie in its ability to select the records of specific kinds of people very much more quickly than is possible with a manual record system, and to extract and present information required in a wide variety of formats These two applications of a not only save a vast amount of time.
1982	This enables the to take details from its records and to enter them into standard documents.
1982	It often happens in large systems that, because of a lack of local control over the system, there is little confidence that accuracy of data can be guaranteed.
1982	Access to the system is nearly always indirect and therefore slow, and likely to be confined to certain times because of a need to load the payroll or manpower tapes within the centre.
1982	In short, the system is seen as unreliable, inaccessible, inflexible and therefore largely irrelevant to the needs of local managers Once seen to be irrelevant to local needs, there is little hope of sufficient local commitment to the system to ensure the accuracy of data supplied.
1982	The fundamental design concept of a microcomputer is that it should provide real computing power to tackle the same kinds of task that larger handle but in a machine which is almost as easy to use as a calculator and typewriter.
1982	Microcomputers are accessible to individuals at home, to small businesses and to schools This means that the majority of microcomputers are used by people without specialised skills in computing Manufacturers of microcomputers and the writers of programs for them therefore design their products to be simple to use Mainframe and minicomputers, however, are extremely expensive and have always been the preserve of large organisations where specialist staff and trained operators are more readily available.
1982	Microcomputers cannot store as much data as the larger nor can they process it as quickly.
1982	But it must be said that multi-user can be slow at times if a large number of people are all trying to use the at once.
1982	Their low cost means that a secretary can have a to herself instead of having to compete for time with many other users from other departments in the company.
1982	The fact that microcomputers can communicate with larger means that data can be prepared on the micro and then sent to the mainframe at a convenient moment.
1982	One further dimension to such a system is the possibility of "networking" a number of micros This involves the interconnecting of micros which retain their full power as independent but gain the additional ability of communicating with other in the network and having access to common files The result is analogous to a minicomputer with a number of terminals but with the big difference that each of the micros has its own processing power instead of sharing that of the mini.
1982	There are a number of modelling programs suitable for use on microcomputers at a price which is so low that a complete system often costs less than the terminals used merely to communicate with larger .
1982	Personnel Activities Amenable to Assistance
1982	Use of in Personnel
1982	Problems Associated with Large Systems
1982	Some form of aid — in the form of a — was implied.
1982	A batch number is assigned by a member of the Personnel staff to the report and a parameter with this batch number is input into the relevant program.
1993	Money markets have no physical existence; the participants in the markets are linked by telephone and .
1993	New activated ‘sell’ programs undoubtedly worsened the situation.
1993	His face was totally devoid of expression, but the intensity of his gaze told her his mind was working with the speed and emotionless precision of a .
1991	Electronic memory is conventionally classified into ROM and RAM.
1991	Other electronic memory, called RAM, can be ‘written to’(one soon gets used to this inelegant jargon) as well as read.
1991	Most of a 's memory is RAM.
1991	All memory, whether ‘ROM’ or ‘RAM’, is addressed.
1991	For instance the first two letters of this chapter, ‘It’, are at this moment sitting in RAM locations 6446 and 6447 of my , which has 65,536 RAM locations altogether.
1991	The DNA is arranged along stringy chromosomes, like long tapes.
1991	All the DNA in each of our cells is addressed in the same sense as ROM, or indeed tape, is addressed.
1991	The exact numbers or names that we use to label a given address are arbitrary, just as they are for memory.
1991	Indeed, it floats about in fluid so its physical position varies, but every location along the chromosome is precisely addressed in terms of linear order along the length of the chromosome, just as every location along a tape is precisely addressed, even if the tape is strewn around the floor rather than being neatly rolled up.
1991	When the information in a memory has been read from a particular location, one of two things may happen to it.
1991	In , one kind of action is the execution of program instructions.
1991	In my 's ROM, location numbers 64489, 64490 and 64491, taken together, contain a particular pattern of contents — 1s and 0s which — when interpreted as instructions, result in the 's little loudspeaker uttering a blip sound.
1991	It has that effect only because of the way the rest of the is wired up.
1991	This, too, is just like the biomorph model.
1991	In our models in Chapter 3, we deliberately built into the the basic ingredients of cumulative selection.
1991	It is just a chemical version of the biomorphs.
1991	Like that phrase in our model, the particular favoured RNA molecule was built up by gradual, cumulative evolution.
1991	Biomorphs readily replicate in the environment provided by a suitably written program, but they can't write their own program or build a to run it.
1991	The musical notes are converted, by , into binary numbers.
1991	When you play the disc, another laser beam ‘reads’ the pattern of flaws, and a special-purpose built into the player turns the binary  numbers back into sound vibrations, which are amplified so that you can hear them.
1991	As part of their equipment, bodies evolved onboard — brains.
1991	They are patterns of information that can thrive only in brains or the artificially manufactured products of brains — books, , and so on.
1991	But, given that brains, books and exist, these new replicators, which I called memes to distinguish them from genes, can propagate themselves from brain to brain, from brain to book, from book to brain, from brain to , from to .
1991	If so, we may be sure that will be in the van.
1991	Could it be that one far-off day intelligent will speculate about their own lost origins?
1991	Will he rediscover some electronic equivalent of the metaphor of the arch, and realize that could not have sprung spontaneously into existence but must have originated from some earlier process of cumulative selection?
1991	Our minds can't imagine a time span as short as a picosecond, but we can do calculations about picoseconds, and we can build that can complete calculations within picoseconds.
1991	We saw this message demonstrated, in elementary form, by the development of the biomorphs.
1991	Remember that a gene is just a length of coded symbols, like a file on a disc; and genes can be copied to different parts of the chromosomes, just as files can be copied to different parts of the disc.
1991	By ‘officially’ I mean that the 's operating system tells me that there are just three files.
1991	You can see this if you break away from the discipline of the 's own official operating system, and write your own private programs to decipher what is actually written on every sector of the disc.
1991	When you tell a to delete a file, it appears to obey you.
1991	For the , this is a perfectly economical way to do things, because the space formerly occupied by the ‘deleted’ file is automatically available for new files, as soon as the pointers to the old file have been removed.
1991	When the is trying to save a new file to a disc, it looks for the first available fragment of space, writes as much of the new file as will fit, then looks for another available fragment of space, writes a bit more, and so on until all the file is written somewhere on the disc.
1991	The human has the illusion that the file is a single, orderly array, only because the is careful to keep records ‘pointing’ to the addresses of all the fragments dotted around.
1991	Now the DNA operating system of a species is very very old indeed, and there is evidence that it, seen in the long term, does something a bit like the with its disc files.
1991	To a programmer, the pattern of distribution of these ‘genetic fossil’ fragments is uncannily reminiscent of the pattern of text on the surface of an old disc that has been much used for editing text.
1991	A error (or, to be fair, it may have been human error) caused me accidentally to ‘erase’ the disc containing Chapter 3.
1991	Higher-order structure could now emerge, just as it did, on an incomparably smaller scale, in the two-way branching biomorphs.
1991	Even the biomorphs, with their nine genes, had emergent properties.
1991	This is a particularly pleasing parallel with human armament races, since the brain is the on-board used by both carnivores and herbivores, and electronics is probably the most rapidly advancing element in human weapons technology today.
1989	The emergence of Gestalt ‘wholes’(Bruce and Green, 1985) or the application of Gestalt principles, as in David Marr's work on vision (Marr, 1982), illustrate the kinds of matchings of similar elements which, although operating at a level of pre-awareness, nevertheless result in a conscious recognition of an image's identity.
1989	Through various programs (G A B, Pegasus, Gridmap) data is statistically analysed and the trace made evident.
1989	With analysis it can also reach a far higher level of sophistication than can be achieved by hand methods.
1989	The simple grid described above is used merely to exemplify the method which, with analysis of the data and a use of rank ordering or numerical scaling of the judgments, is able to reach a higher level of sophistication.
1989	With analysis information of the kind presented here can be more rapidly and accurately mapped.
1989	Recent developments in the program used for analysing grids lends greater credibility to the wider application of Repertory Grid Techniques as a personalized learning system.
1989	By creating a mode of Repertory Grid Technique specific to visual art and making it available through the personal , this area full of complexity and uncertainty might come to be both better understood and more widely valued.
1991	The murder case slipped easily into its next phase, as if it had been programmed by a that had access to several personal files and knew where they interacted.
1982	The politicians may say Blah but the go on saying 0110100 or whatever it is, and it's the people who can make sense of that who'll be in the top bunk when the dam breaks.
1988	Some people expect that in a few decades' time youngsters will learn from their home tutor and rarely, if ever, have contact with a human teacher.
1988	Yet even at university, it may well still be a minority of departments that expect all mathematics students to use as a matter of course; indeed, some people fear that higher education will be the phase most resistant to new IT, rather than the one that provides a strong lead.
1988	Learning mathematics with
1988	studies — the (and its uses) as a subject of study in its own right, rather than as a tool in other curricular areas;
1988	management and administration — the as a tool for background departmental work;
1988	control — using a to capture data from its environment and to control other equipment.
1988	When first reached secondary schools and colleges, many mathematics specialists, like colleagues in physics, welcomed the new horizon and set up computing/IT departments.
1988	Computer-aided learning (cal) is, for me, a portmanteau term for all cases in which help along the learning process.
1988	exploration of specially relevant program languages such as LOGO.
1988	Microprocessor-controlled rows of lamps can help learners with number work (for example, in binary), while using a to collect temperature data, for instance , and present it ready for a graph is also of value.
1988	In other words, no one working with a should be forced into a straightjacket of usage: IT should liberate rather than restrict, and the best applications are those in which the uses are almost boundless.
1988	Here, under message processing, I exclude local area communications, for example, in adjoining teaching areas sharing data and printers, or departmental work stations being part of a network.
1988	Rather, I am thinking of access to public data bases (such as Prestel, the Times Network System, and NERIS, this last being a data base of worksheets and such); here too come electronic mail and other forms of electronic communication, such as conferring, between departments in different areas or even different countries.
1993	‘All new design.
1993	Look — system.’
1993	There was a hushed silence before Balvinder whispered: ‘Mr William, this vehicle product of Indian Space Programme.
1991	Or, he added privately, when the little Indian gentleman who was the only one who could access the records on the returned from sick leave.
1991	It's all done with tractors and .’
1991	In either case, decisions about spending priorities — e.g. on staffing as against , or educational visits as against redecoration — and about the hiring and firing of teachers, will now be made at the level of the school itself, not by the LEA.
1991	Of this money, 18% is spent on — the largest single item of expenditure.
1989	He recites Rachel's name and reads out sentences constructed by a constipated .
1992	The underfunding has resulted in poor provision of essentials, like text books and stationery and a lack of for the teaching of information technology.
1982	She had a mind like a , with indefinite retrieval of unimportant facts.
1992	The argument applies just as forcibly to many manufacturing industries, such as those of automobiles, electronic components, and aircraft.
1993	Isn't it possible that there's been an error — a error, perhaps?
1993	And you said yourself that this Corosini business was a mistake, a error.’
1993	By a large antique desk was a terminal, fax machine and photocopier.
1992	‘Just a moment,’ she said, ‘till I find you on the .’
1992	In order to make some provision for this common approach to information sources, it is necessary to arrange documents- and document surrogates in catalogues, indexes bibliographies, databases and so on— in such a way that items on specific subjects can be retrieved.
1992	In indexing, this will involve statistical analysis of the relative frequency of occurrence of terms.
1992	Either a or a person can execute natural language indexing.
1992	The may well use a list of terms deemed to be useful in indexing (that is, a type of thesaurus) to identify appropriate terms.
1992	Free language indexing may be conducted by humans or .
1992	The must have some basis for assigning indexing terms; if a pre-assigned list of terms is not supplied, the itself must assign terms on the basis of those present in the document being indexed.
1992	Indexing may be conducted manually or may rely to varying extents upon the facilities for the manipulation and ordering of data offered by the .
1992	are reliable and less prone to error provided they are instructed or programmed appropriately and correctly.
1992	the extension of developing disciplines, as measured by the relative size of the literature, and as has been evident recently in various areas of the social sciences and in science;
1992	For example, railways, children, substances (such as gold), ethnic groups, or rabbits may all have more than one place in an enumerative discipline-based classification scheme.
1992	Various studies have been conducted in order to assess the extent to which analysis of text can contribute to the generation of a practical classification scheme.
1992	Obviously, and the use of notation in computerized systems may place additional constraints upon the nature of notation or, conversely, may eliminate the need to consider some of the characteristics listed below.
1992	For instance, whilst a person may be concerned about the length of notation, this is not usually important to a ; moreover, a has little use for mnemonics (it does not forget!).
1992	This policy has allowed the preparation of the Phoenix on data processing and science, for instance, which was published without waiting for the twentieth edition.
1992	Some subjects have one stem, for example, sterilizer, sterilizing, sterilized; or computing, , microcomputers, computed, computation.
1992	The Library of Congress, for instance, started with the term ‘Electronic calculating machines’ but had to modify this, in keeping with later normal usage, to ‘’.
1992	In an ideal system the user would be able to pose a question in natural language, and the would search the texts and provide a sufficient group of relevant documents.
1992	Milstead reviews some packages for personal , while Rowley provides an analysis of packages that are available as integral modules in text information management systems (see Reading list).
1992	Principles applied in thesauri are becoming relevant in solving problems in linguistics or Linguistic Engineering, which is a branch of Artificial Intelligence.
1992	Synonyms, related terms and other variants must now be collected, either by human selection or with the aid of the .
1992	In a totally machine-selected thesaurus, the listing of terms will be printed or displayed by the , and often no further effort is necessary.
1992	All listings for the final thesaurus must be converted to the format appropriate for typing, printing or input to a database, and each feature checked, edited and tested on some  examples.
1992	Thus the golist must be machine-stored and is used by the in the assignment of index terms.
1992	Being new, they will not appear in the golist and the will not know whether or not to treat them as indexing terms.
1992	In this case, the human indexer will be provided with the terms not recognized by the , and must decide whether to list them in the golist or the stoplist, or perhaps to leave them unlisted so that they will be output for human indexer consideration on each occurrence.
1993	The main benefit variable (ben) is the sum of Unemployment and Supplementary benefits as recorded on the DHSS .
1992	‘IB4E — can you show us the message on your ?’
1992	Look at the .
1992	‘There's something on the paper under that .’
1992	IB4E, can your tell us?’
1986	So I would like to leave you with this suggestion that art, better than a scientifically-constructed , is a useful analogy for the brain, and that the more that can be found out about the workings of memory, the more usefully shall we be able to understand the links between them.
1991	Non-dispersive interferometers, though available, were not widely used prior to the advent of modern technology.
1991	The availability of the means that spectrum manipulation, storage and retrieval for replotting or comparison with standards are all easy, and this may be felt to justify the higher cost of interferometers.
1991	The advantages include those associated with the interferometer (see above) and the associated , those associated with the high-power directed beam of the laser, which may also be operated in pulses rather than continuously, and also the virtual elimination of fluorescent background signals because of the long wavelength of the laser radiation.
1991	Interferometers can be used, though the decay of the sample following the generating flash means that quite elaborate multiple interferograms must be recorded under control.
1988	Several systems of enhancement and image analysis which can be used with a petrographic microscope are beginning to come on the market and promise relative ease of modal composition evaluation.
1988	Perhaps a future valid contribution to this field could be made by a combination of experimental simulation of mechanical and chemical compaction in conjunction with the use of imagery in volume reconstruction; at present we only know compaction is extremely effective at reducing both absolute volume and porosity in many sediments.
1990	His wife rolled her eyes rather and murmured, ‘And I get to hear about it every day,’ as her husband hastened away to show us his print-out from the medical laboratory.
1993	His official title was Adviser of the .
1993	Those meetings were enclosed within a Fifth Force Field, so that no one ever knew what passed between the Emperor and his  Adviser of the .
1993	The edicts continued from the Throne .
1993	‘The could do it without trouble.
1993	‘I am Adviser of the , Deems, not a rabble to be addressed.’
1993	HE YUP The first words the spoke, meaning, ‘The light will not be necessary’
1993	USANA NUTO A novel all about love, written by a
1991	He thought of his own rigorous training, the constant reports on his work and conduct which followed him from base to base.
1991	From the next room came the sound of his sergeant, fresh from his success on a course, tirelessly  cross-referencing statements.
1993	We're having trouble with the new .
1993	‘I'm glad you thought better of it,’ he said tersely, and turned his attention to the secretary, who was staring in a distracted fashion at the print-out.
1993	It had been Adam, too, who had broached the subject of a new programming system for the business.
1993	‘It's linked in with an audio tape facility which comes through the left earpiece, and the sound connects with the other.’
1993	‘What you need is a weekend off, a complete break from anything to do with and logistics.’
1993	‘Rourke is going to the Brooksby plant, and I'll be out for some time, so I wondered if you could come over and help Becky out with the ?
1993	I've asked Lissa to keep an eye on the .
1993	‘The is just an excuse,’ he gritted.
1993	Lissa greeted her, adding, ‘If you have any hiccups with the new , just let me know.
1993	Smoothing down her skirt as she seated herself, she reached over and started up the secondary .
1993	‘There's no need for your presence if Rebecca isn't using the .
1993	‘For someone like you, who knows inside out and backwards, there's no problem.
1993	She attacked the keyboard with renewed vigour.
1993	The bleeped at her indignantly, and she gave it a mutinous scowl.
1993	How could she be expected to cope with stupid that hadn't the wit to understand a simple error, or calculators that came up with the wrong numbers?
1993	Among them, where's the telephone book, where's the lead to the , and where's the spare kettle?
1993	‘Such fragile things, .’
1993	It's a precaution against losing any work through the , you see.’
1992	One of the US pioneers of laptop was GRiD.
1992	GRiD also holds the Patent on the idea of a fold-up screen which is part of every laptop, or notebook .
1992	Should another globe-trotting adventure arise, we know what notebook we'll be taking along for the ride.
1992	The first Victor PC came to Britain as the Sirius PC, and was sold and supported by ACT, Applied Techniques of Birmingham.
1992	ACT ‘borrowed’ many ideas of the Sirius and designed the Apricot .
1992	ACT is now a separate maintenance company that was split off from Apricot before it was bought by Mitsubishi, the Japanese conglomerate that produces everything from the four-wheel Shogun to equally rugged Nikon cameras.
1992	This number is scanned into the factory production .
1992	Shareware is rapidly becoming the most effective way to market software.
1992	Whether you are a novice or advanced user you will find programs and information that will be of use day after day, and at affordable prices.
1992	Shareware is the most modern of all marketing techniques used in the industry today.
1992	There are many specific texts for portable users but the MS-DOS tutor contained within is excellent reading for all novice users.
1992	Omniday is a desk top diary for up to 10 users, ideal for people having to share a .
1992	Using a to help in your child's education is fine, providing he or she understands what a keyboard is all about.
1992	ABC Fun Keys is designed to get your child familiar with the quickly.
1992	A good tutorial that certainly taught me a thing or two about sound waves, this package is ideal for the student to help with his revision or a school physics department with facilities.
1992	As the program is fully 32 bit compatible you will benefit from whatever power your has to offer.
1992	All you are asked to do is to type in the baby's surname and the will display or print a random list of baby's names (girls or boys) with the chosen surname.
1992	You can make a selection of names to be included in the list so the will only display combinations of the selected names.
1992	A fun program to play with as the will come up with some outrageous names as well as more sensible ones, you may even recognise one or two of them.
1992	You play against the which operates at a chosen skill level so you could have a chance of winning.
1992	A collection of information for midi-users, programmers and those interested in music.
1992	Whenever your is going to be left unattended for some time simply run Blaze.
1992	If you are not sure simply call our experienced support staff and tell them what kind of you have.
1992	Shareware means buying software with the lowest possible risk.
1992	With shareware you have ample time to try before you buy, discovering all the programs abilities, and testing it on your own .
1992	Remember, registering shareware means you often save up to 50% on the price of buying a similar package from a shop.
1992	We also carry a range of programs that teach you how to use your and even how to type.
1992	However, it seemed a shame to be able to design the forms using the and not be able to complete them on the same machine at a later point.
1992	Order Code: 9350 Total Disks: 1 This program is ideal for introducing children to and helping them with their spelling.
1992	It doesn't stop there though, it advances into the basic components of a .
1992	This lesson covers arithmetic, specifically signed-binary numbers.
1992	are becoming more and more involved in the areas of strange phenomenon.
1992	Poison For the Heart is one of a collection of ‘books’ for thinkers.
1992	The then displays question and answer like text on many philosophical topics.
1992	At last ID software recognise the existence of CGA users who will no doubt make a mad dash for the phone, to order this disk.
1992	An oriental Korean card game, played for points with the facing you as the opponent.
1992	An excellent version of the popular board game Scrabble.
1992	You have the option of 1–4 players, or if you prefer the can play with you.
1992	Students may enter complex calculations from sources such as passed examination papers and the will take them through a solution step by step.
1992	One of a new generation of slow down utilities which caters for high speed 80386 and 80486 .
1992	If a game or other program runs too fast using a utility such AT-SLOW will reduce the performance of your to a level similar to a XT or 80286 machine.
1992	It is difficult to pick up a magazine these days and not see an article or item of news about the latest attack on some or other.
1992	The virus utilities are a must for every user concerned with security.
1992	Doesn't that make it a different ?
1992	Just about every PC (which means Personal , but, for this article at least, implies an IBM PC compatible personal ) comes in three distinct parts — the CPU (also called the system box, main box, processor unit and others), the Monitor (also called the VDU, Display, Screen) and the Keyboard.
1992	Every IBM PC compatible is built around a Processing Chip (processor), and this chip is nominally a member of the Intel x86 family.
1992	The machine was developed as an alternative to the many CP/M based machines that dominated the industry at the time, and was, unusually for IBM, designed around ‘off the shelf’ building blocks.
1992	The only difference, therefore, between a full 386 and a 386SX is that the SX chip communicates with the rest of the via a 16 bit bus, where the full 386 (the 386DX) uses a 32 bit bus.
1992	When IBM's AT (the 286 based ) was launched in late 1984, it ran at 8MHz, but it wasn't long before faster and faster oscillator speeds were used — a 25MHz 286 based machine was quite common only a couple of years ago.
1992	The 286 family can access more memory, and the 386/486 family can act as though it was a number of 8086 based all at once— but there you see the glue coming back — the magic 8086 crops up yet again.
1992	Building your own can, and should, save you money — but just how easy is it?
1992	The safest route is to approach a company that specialises in DIY , use their support services and product guarantees.
1992	Nationwide Maintenance (NCM) are one such company — so we set about assembling one of their Computakits.
1992	Your new , however, is not yet ready for use — you have to run a setup program to tell the machine which components are installed.
1992	We would not be so brave as to suggest that ‘anyone’ can build their own .
1992	All in all, building your own machine can be a worthwhile exercise — not only for the savings in cost, but also for the experience and knowledge you will gain to give you a greater understanding of your Personal .
1992	Supplier: Nationwide Maintenance (NCM)
1992	Sample Product Specifications: 386DX-40MHz based IBM compatible .
1992	Once you come into contact with the other side you can drop down into command the individual tanks and engage in fast armoured conflict — the controls here do take some getting used to, although you can opt to assign either the driving or firing to the .
1992	The graphics are well drawn, and all the major pieces of Allied and German hardware are represented, with many of the pieces not normally seen in wargames like the British Sexton Self propelled gun, and the massive JagdTiger Tank destroyer.
1992	How not to buy a — a cautionary tale
1992	I now find that this is clearly inadequate for my needs and that despite the fact that Dixon's staff assured me that it would support desktop publishing and graphics, I now discover that it is never going to produce the results I need.
1992	I have also learnt that there are other makes of — even among those supplied by Dixons — that would have been more suitable at little or no extra cost.
1992	I have bought Practical PC since it first came out in an attempt to help with the strange world of and from reading it I think I might need a 286 or 386 PC — but how can I be sure and I still haven't the foggiest idea what most of the terminology means.
1992	Well, Val I think you are quite right in thinking that you are not alone in feeling let down after purchasing the ‘wrong’ for your needs and I do agree that you were given poor advice by the store you purchased from.
1992	The hard fact is however that such altruistic dealers are still the rarity and more often than not the innocent customer will come face to face with an almost equally innocent sales person!
1992	The trouble is that people only start to read these magazines after they think of themselves as users — and the point they most need help is when they are deciding what to buy.
1992	Find out about before you buy one by reading everything up-to-date that you can get your hands on.
1992	But Val's message to the High Street stores that sell is still important — you have a duty to your customers to provide some guidance even if this means pointing out that some of the you sell are very limited!
1992	The easiest way to ensure this is to leave your in the box!
1992	If you rely on your and value the investment you have made, then it is well worth the few minutes spent on preventative maintenance.
1992	Most of the components that make up your are delicate and don't take too kindly to being taken apart.
1992	Bearing in mind that the gap between the read/write heads and the hard disk platter is less than the size of a single smoke particle, it is sensible to declare the work area a no-smoking zone.
1992	Coffee drinkers too should adopt clean habits and keep drinks away from equipment.
1992	The warming and cooling that takes place when the is turned on and off expands and contracts circuit boards and socketed integrated circuit chips.
1992	You can reduce the risk of damage to your simply by treating it with care and respect.
1992	Keep the in a clean, vibration-free place away from smokers and coffee drinkers.
1992	Do not place the where it will be subject to large variations in temperature or near a radiator.
1992	The annual COMDEX/Fall is the largest show in the world.
1992	The greatest show on earth, COMDEX/Fall ‘92, is set against the glittering background of Las Vegas, Nevada USA.
1992	Although the COMDEX (Distribution EXposition) show is multi-platform covering all popular types of , the PC is dominant with major companies such as Microsoft, Intel and IBM at the fore.
1992	Its Chief Executive Officer, Sheldon G. Adelson, describes COMDEX as the one event the whole world turns to.
1992	Grid are the first company to produce a specially designed pen notebook portable .
1992	John Wiley and Sons, prolific publishers of books, have announced a new series of books that will, they claim, change the face of book publishing.
1992	In an attack on all book publishers (including themselves), they see the scramble to publish books on every piece of newly released software as resulting in shelves full of regurgitated documentation — modified either for the novice or the power user and thus leaving the average user with intermediate skills out in the cold.
1992	They see the UK as a market growing in size and importance, but their reluctance and over-cautiousness result in UK users lagging behind their American counterparts.
1992	The personal desktop is growing too powerful for stand-alone desktop use.
1992	COMDEX/Fall dedicated a complete section of the exhibition to connectivity.
1992	Intel are developing more than processors, they are working towards the diskless and demonstrated a prototype that included a small capacity solid-state C: drive containing boot information and operating system in Read Only Memory chips and new high capacity (40Mb) removable flash ROM cards for storage of applications and data.
1992	The Intel prototype diskless was based on a modified 486 motherboard.
1992	In the future we can expect to see this technology integrated into the motherboard circuitry — initially for use in portable to reduce the unit weight and power requirements.
1992	The NeXT company, headed by Steve Jobs (co-designer of the Apple Macintosh), are releasing NeXTSTEP 486, an object-oriented system that gives complete software data compatibility, unlimited multitasking both locally and across a network, and allows you to create custom applications on your desktop.
1992	In the not too distant future we should see a diskless, Pentium, networked, pen based running NeXTSTEP or Windows NT.
1992	Super charge your
1992	Practical PC brings you three state of the art cards that will get you well on the way to building a multi media .
1992	The Media Vision Thunder Board sound card brings high quality sound to your .
1992	In any organisation the most active and critical area is the support help desk.
1992	Viruses are almost entirely contained in Software.
1992	The ability to control a via a Graphical User Interface or GUI is much like a car driver who doesn't need to understand the internal combustion engine to be able to manoeuvre the car with considerable skill.
1992	If you have recently changed from a 16-bit (something like an Atari ST or an Amiga) to a PC, you will have suddenly found yourself face to face with DOS (Disk Operating System), and this will most probably be Microsoft's DOS 5 (MS-DOS 5).
1992	To begin with there is the DOS SHELL,(also known as the FRONT END) which is a graphical user interface,(or GUI) and this is most likely to be the screen you first encounter when you switch on your .
1992	Each time you turn your on these files will activate certain programs and routines that configure your system to your pre-set specifications.
1992	Knowing which type of memory you require is a matter of experience, but a good thing to remember is that most have 640K of base memory — even though they state 1 meg — and that most programs now require at least 530K of this to operate properly.
1992	If you are looking to buy a new in the near future it would be wise not to obtain one with less than 4 meg of RAM on board.
1992	If you are using low density disks in high density drives you will have to give the extra information on the format line.
1992	If you have to change your autoexec.bat or config.sys files, you must then REBOOT (restart by either turning it off then on or by using the reset button) your for the changes to take effect.
1992	Europress Software claim that Paint and Create meets virtually all of the requirements of the National Curriculum, key stage One Technology Attainment Target Five (translated modestly by them as nearly all infant and lower junior technology requirements — presumably learning hexadecimal is in the next year!!!)
1992	But I'm using a , and there's no need to adhere slavishly to the old methodologies.
1992	What Microsoft has done is throw away the traditional basis of a spreadsheet and brought the concept into the age.
1992	Why think if the can do the thinking for you?
1992	Why go the long way round if the has the shortcuts?
1992	Accessing this part of the package requires no fiddling with anything in DOS, but needs you to connect the two between which files are to be passed via either a parallel or serial lead.
1992	Even if you have both the parallel and serial leads connected between the two , Fastlynx is intelligent enough to test both and choose the faster and more reliable of the two.
1992	Paul Bocij shows you how to get software for free and author, Jack Dunning, shows you how to make money with
1992	Distributor: Manuals
1992	Greg Harvey is not only the author of over 30 books, but has also been training people in the use of business software since 1983.
1992	How to Make Money With
1992	Publisher: Publishing Enterprises
1992	If you have a at home, or are thinking of buying one, and have often dreamed of starting your own business How to Make Money with will provide you with some valuable pointers.
1992	Suggestions for related businesses are covered in detail in further chapters, these include Consulting, Software Publishing, Freelance Writing, and Building Hardware.
1992	How to Make Money With contains a wealth of essential business advice, which even makes it suitable for the budding entrepreneur who doesn't intend to start a related business.
1992	Publisher Kuma Ltd.
1992	With all this technology literally at our fingertips, many people insist on using the keyboard as if it were mechanically connected to the printer.
1992	The Keyboard
1992	The keyboard differs from the typewriter keyboard in several important and fundamental ways.
1992	All the letters you type are stored in the 's memory or on a disk if the available memory is not sufficient.
1992	Bear in mind that at this stage neither the letters displayed on the screen, nor the text stored in the 's memory are permanent.
1992	They exist only whilst the is turned on and the word-processing program is active.
1992	Secondly, the keyboard has many additional keys which are used to alter the function of the alpha-numeric keys.
1992	The keyboard also has a Delete key to delete letters in front of the cursor, a Backspace key to delete letters behind the cursor, a set of Cursor Movement keys that move the cursor up or down one line or side to side one space, a set of Function keys that perform preset functions with a single keypress and an Escape key that is normally used to reverse or undo the last action.
1992	Before you pack your back in its box and reinstate your typewriter, remember that the additional keys on the keyboard are there to make life easier — and they do.
1992	Although in word-processing this key acts in the same way as the typewriter lever that moves the paper up one line, on a it is only used to force the word-processor to move one line — usually at the end of a paragraph.
1992	Editing a document on the screen is simply a matter of placing the cursor at the spot you want the alteration and type in the changes.
1992	Say, for example, the text as recorded in the 's memory showed WORD WORD WORD i WORD n WORD WORD.
1992	A section of text which is either cut or copied is moved to a different section of the 's memory.
1992	The keyboard also has its own memory and if the is busy doing something else or you type too fast, the last sequence of keystrokes (usually 16) is remembered so that nothing is lost.
1992	Network DDE is much the same except the connected applications can be on physically different on the network.
1992	A six-point retort to Microsoft's claims was posted to journals in the UK by WordPerfect's Windows product manager, Daniel Sumner.
1992	Gross profit doubled to C$19.6M. 91% of the company's turnover is attributed to Corel Draw with the remainder coming from SCSI (small system interface) software-related business.
1992	Four new software guide books have been published by Kuma .
1992	Finally on a lighter note, ‘Amiga Five-O’ by games reviewer Ashley Cotter Cairns is a personal look at the top-50 Amiga games of all time.
1992	As well as games, a large quantity of business software is available — often on open sale.’
1992	At the recent Comdex mega show in Las Vegas, a PC screen saver to beat all screen savers was launched by Berkeley Systems.
1992	Fishbase is a very practical application of the personal .
1992	I would have like to see some attempt to error-trap the data input routine, but help with record location is good and editing is easy, so reliance on the good sense of the operator should be a feasible proposition.
1992	This is a Public Domain database of permitted food additives which references, among others, the E number chemicals and their effects on man.
1992	Such strings can easily be found by search programming, and the rapidity of such searching is one of the major justifications for using a for storing data.
1992	We cant sit around all day playing on this fangled thing.
1992	No, Mr Holmes, we use the to solve the murder.
1992	The on-board gives you a cross hair sight which automatically tracks the target when in range.
1992	The will point you in the right direction of a fuel pod which can be scooped up at close range.
1992	Essentially the best tennis game I have played on any , the graphics and characterisation are in a class of their own.
1992	Translates programs written in a language such as C or Pascal into machine code which is the language a can understand.
1992	A will process instructions given via a program in order to produce output.
1992	The part of the that translates instructions and makes calculations before giving commands to the rest of the system to make sure that these instructions are carried out correctly.
1992	jargon that really means information or facts.
1992	Programs written using high-level languages, such as C, must be translated using a compiler into machine code so that the can understand them.
1992	Input is any data given to a program for the to act on.
1992	Memory is the part of the that stores information.
1992	Information is held temporarily in electronic circuits and is lost whenever the is turned off.
1992	This is used to indicate the clock speed of .
1992	Abbreviation for personal .
1992	Was most often used to describe the original IBM PC, but is now more widely used to describe any .
1992	The part of the that stores and processes information.
1992	A set of instructions written in a programming language, that will tell the system how to carry out a specific task.
1992	This is the memory that the uses to store instructions and information while a program is being run.program is being run (carried out).
1992	RAM loses its contents when the is switched off
1992	Do you ever have to copy type into the text and other data that has arrived in a fax?
1992	The theory is that data from the vast bulk of incoming faxes is later inputted in some form back into the .
1992	FAXgrabber itself has been developed by Calera Recognition Systems which has become a leader in optical character recognition (OCR) technology which allows to ‘read’.
1992	One of the few draw-backs of faxes is that they treat all faxes as bitmap files and gobble up memory at an alarming rate.
1992	Those who never want to see the DOS prompt again can opt to have the Shell loaded each time the is turned on.
1992	You interact with the shell and the shell interacts with the .
1992	If your supports graphics, and most do, the first thing to do is to change from text mode (the mode that DOS sets up for you) into graphics mode.
1992	DOS 5 tends to be bundled with the majority of new and is likely to become the standard.
1992	DOS 5 is more efficient at managing memory and can install itself in a previously unused area of the 's memory leaving more memory available for running programs.
1992	DOS is the operating system commonly used on most PCs and a key factor in determining the overall efficiency of your .
1992	At a basic level it communicates between you and your and between different parts of the hardware.
1992	If software applications were to include their own specific operating systems they might well be more efficient, but they would be unwieldy, expensive to develop and could not interact with other applications or with the variety of hardware designs.
1992	Only ten years ago no-one foresaw the popularity and meteoric development advancements of the Personal — not even Microsoft!
1992	The earliest version of MS-DOS (MicroSoft — Disc Operating System) was designed to compete with the then standard home operating system — CP/M (Control Program/Microcomputer).
1992	I have used auctions in the past for some purchases and would like to know how to tell the difference between XT/AT keyboards.
1992	The new Brentford store covers over 40,000 square feet and holds over 4,000 related product lines from 486 tower systems to floppy disks and mouse-mats.
1992	The company reckons that its superstore approach allows it to offer product at a much lower price than in a conventional dealership.
1992	The New Year marks the arrival of a whole new set of EC inspired health and safety laws that could effect the kind of you buy and exactly how you can use it at work.
1992	The others will cover such things as workplace conditions and the use of work equipment, with screens getting special attention.
1992	If you're buying a new screen it will now by law have to comply with European standards in terms of low radiation emissions and lack of screen flicker.
1992	Screensafe comes with two earth conductors one to be attached to the monitor, the other to the keyboard.
1992	Writing on a touch sensitive screen with a ‘stylus’ just like using a pen and paper has been possible for quite some time now.
1992	But the power required to turn all those dots and squiggles you call your handwriting into meaningful data has meant that most pen based have been incredibly expensive.
1992	As with all technology the price of the necessary hardware and software has been falling dramatically and more and more manufacturers are starting to take seriously the idea of producing pen based for the mass market.
1992	For those parents who want to get their kids interested in from an early age, we've found the perfect creativity and entertainment package.
1992	Seagate has ruled out a completely new range of hard disks for almost every conceivable type of from palmtop and penbased systems up to mainframe and supercomputers.
1992	SCSI Small System Interface.
1992	Thus a drive with 1660 tracks, 4 heads and 33 sectors per track can appear to the to have 8 heads and 830 tracks.
1992	Sierra release their latest and best episode in the longest running saga in gaming history…
1992	The initial puzzles seem pretty straightforward, and would allow the game to be ‘adult supervised’ for the youngsters, although the hardened eleven/twelve year old would probably handle it — with the occasional flash of totally brilliant parental genius (in reality of course it is likely to be the other way round!).
1992	THE KINGS QUEST SERIES — The Classic Adventure saga.
1992	They do however share one thing in common, they are all quality products, and have always been high in the list of best selling games on all hardware formats.
1992	The Artisoft Ethernet network with Windows control and Novell compatibility Local Area Networking (LAN) allows on the same site to communicate with each other and share resources.
1992	This can be an economical way of running a multi organisation, reducing the number of powerful machines required and making fuller use of peripherals such as printers.
1992	Networked can act as one, sharing resources such as printers, disk drives and files.
1992	Individual can be up to 500 metres apart and can be designated as servers, workstations or both.
1992	Traditionally, one powerful is used as a dedicated server using all its power and memory to run the network.
1992	LANtastic is a peer-to-peer system and because the memory requirement of LANtastic is low, each on the network can be set up as a server and still function as a regular PC.
1992	You should be aware that software licence agreements refer to installation and use on one only.
1992	Each on the network should have its own registered copy of each piece of software unless either a site or networking licence is obtained.
1992	GIFs are fairly widely available, and can be generated by most types of , which is probably why there's a dummy Apple Mac screen in there.
1992	The only other observation is that the screen brilliance isn't up to battling with a bright sunlit office, or overhead fluorescent lights, but that could apply to the majority of today's notebook .
1992	In the field of printers companies are readying themselves for the challenge of Europe, Lyndhurst West previews the starting grid.
1992	This number is scanned into the factory production .
1992	There is no doubt that the US market-place drives the world of Personal .
1992	Every Autumn 2.2 million square feet of hardware and software attracts some 140,000 visitors to the world's largest computing event — COMDEX ‘Fall in Las Vegas.
1992	The DOC IT is controlled via a 16-bit plug in ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) AT-class board, powered by an Intel 32-bit i960 RISC (Reduced Instruction Set ) microprocessor.
1992	Its amazing the number of users that pick up a pen or pencil to take a telephone message when they're sitting in front of a working PC!
1992	Early versions of AutoCad, the market leader in Aided Design (CAD), and many other comparable products, have been justifiably criticised for being difficult to learn.
1992	CAD programs are complex, and not too long ago would only run on expensive mainframe .
1992	MegaCAD is DOS based and can operate within the 640k base memory of your .
1992	Use of the has helped with both the problems.
1992	Finally, after reading Practical PC I am attracted by the idea of building my own .
1992	This strikes me as the best way of getting a real working knowledge of .
1992	Could you assist me in identifying the Video chip on my as I am a little confused.
1992	I appreciate that the outcome will make no difference to my current display as I believe I only have a monitor capable of standard VGA display.
1992	Every MS-DOS has a clock that can be used to do the same job as a stop watch.
1992	In recent years the popularity of the has soared, few people never come into close contact with , but a surprisingly small number use them to their full potential.
1992	Ever since the personnel first thrust itself onto our desks it has been a largely text based machine.
1992	based training takes on a whole new lease of life when you throw in multi media.
1992	Can this be the beginning of the end for vastly over priced training courses?
1992	Last month we identified three broad categories of musician; the programmer, who produces music within the without recourse to musical instruments; the performer, who uses technology to enhance their performance, and the composer/arranger who produces printed scores for use in live performances.
1992	Our musician, Mr. Robert Turner, is currently the musical director of a successful Male Voice choir and has had countless years of experience in the world of music — but only hours of experience with .
1992	What do I, as a musician, need from a music machine?
1992	Most of all, as a musician and not a buff, the software must be intuitive, quick to learn and easy to operate.
1992	To the musician, a MIDI keyboard attached to the would provide a more natural method of entering notes but, for those musicians who are not concert pianists, some allowance must be made for timing mistakes to reduce the amount of editing.
1992	The must, therefore, produce a final printout which is equally as good, if not better than the hand copied finished piece.
1992	It is capable of running entirely from floppy disks and so allows users without a hard drive to produce professional scores.
1992	If you have a sound card, better quality sound output is available by using the perform function which also acts as a mini-recording studio, allowing you to record direct from the keyboard.
1992	Music Systems Ltd
1992	The program can be used to record music input directly from the keyboard.
1992	If you buy an IDE drive then you will have to remove the original drive from the in order to configure it.
1992	If your dealer can't supply them you can easily get the connectors and make them up yourself if you are handy with a soldering iron.
1992	Take the usual static precautions, earth yourself and the , and don't touch any part of the connector or PCB.
1992	Mount the drive so that its front panel sits behind the front panel of the .
1992	LAUNCHES NEW RANGE OF PLAIN & PRINTED LABELS.
1992	A new range of competitively priced plain & printed labels, has been added to the current stationery products and end-of-line labelling systems available from Limpet Tapes Ltd.
1992	FOR THE HP 95LX FROM SAVTEC TECHNOLOGY
1992	SAVTEC Technology, the Hampshire based ACT! contact software specialist announces the availability of ACT! on the Hewlett-Packard Palmtop PC.
1992	SAVTEC Technology is probably the UK's foremost authority on the implementation of ACT! in the corporate sector, where organisations with large number of users will require expert guidance through the set-up stages and capable support in the future.
1992	SAVTEC Technology, Atticus House, 2 The Windmills, Turk Street, Alton, Hants.
1992	There can be little doubt that a sound understanding of DOS commands produces a deeper understanding of the way your works.
1992	PC users could be forgiven for feeling a little superior and more ‘literate’ than their Macintosh or Atari counterparts who use graphical representations of commands (or icons) to control their .
1992	There is a certain comfort in the familiar C: \> prompt which makes you feel in control — understanding the way your operates.
1992	To make the best use of Windows you will need at least a 386SX based with as much memory as you can afford.
1992	Windows can be used on an 80286 based , but it will operate noticeably slower and cannot take advantage of one of Windows' main characteristics — Multi-tasking.
1992	The Control Panel is a set of utilities for controlling and altering the operation of your .
1992	This window allows you to change the date and time which is used by your .
1992	I used to use a similar item — called a Plonker Box at the time — years ago, on the sides of two or three of my , and never lost so much a byte of information.
1992	Sir: I am writing first to congratulate you all on an excellent magazine, I have been reading magazines for the last 10 years and can honestly say that Practical PC is the most informative and enjoyable one to date.
1992	Sir: I consider myself fortunate in having selected your launch issue from the station bookshop, being attracted by the price, for as a relatively new user I find the content both interesting and easy to read and understand.
1992	I am 61 years of age and my only link with was a brief but satisfying fling with a Sinclair ZX81 some ten or eleven years ago; it was, though, a 16K so I was upmarket!
1992	Sir: I would like to relate to you an experience I recently had at a dealership on Oxford Road, Manchester, which I think may, in part, explain the ever downward spiralling morass retailing finds itself in.
1992	I asked if it could print in scales of grey upon labels, he closed his eyes, shook his head and insisted he didn't know.
1992	As a complete an utter novice I am seeking a publication that will explain to me in more or less layman's terms how my works and what I should/could be doing with it!
1992	Getting the maximum data transfer rate out of a hard disk can increase the perceived speed of your enormously.
1992	Info Box Product: Power Launcher 2.0 From: hDC Corporation Tel: 0256 463344 Price: £49.95 Upgrade from V1.x — TBA
1992	TV Sports Boxing is playable if you opt for the management side of the game and simply let the fight for you.
1992	The can fight on the behalf of both boxers and the outcome is based upon the fighters statistics that they built up during numerous bouts.
1992	The best boxing game I've played on a home is 4D Sports Boxing, again from Mindscape, which uses 3D vector graphics.
1992	It is designed to be a first maths program for the younger user and is suitable for the 3 to 6 years age group, depending on the level of familiarity.
1992	You could, of course, use a budget drawing package such as Easy Draw for your designing and print a quality laser image with Pizazz Plus.
1992	Easy Draw is a competitively priced drawing package for use with Windows 3.0 and 3.1, and has many of the features you would expect from a more expensive program, plus easy to use animation software.
1992	Installation of the software which is supplied on just one disk, doesn't take long, but it does ask you questions about the configuration of your system such as which kind of is being used, the name of the graphics adapter and the resolution.
1992	Company: Manuals Ltd.
1992	Resources Management Ltd.
1992	The grizzled Skipper is a graphics accelerator card that replaces the standard video driver installed in your .
1992	Disknet uses a single as a ‘gateway’ PC which means that the machine has been previously tested for viruses, and also has scanner software and the Disknet check program installed.
1992	3M Privacy Plus Screen PF400
1992	Tel: Action Supplies 0800 333 333
1992	They are designed to cut out the reflective glare that can be potentially harmful to someone spending long hours working in front of a screen.
1992	This is due to to the use of a special microlouvre film, which only allows the person seated directly in front of it to see the information displayed on the 's monitor.
1992	The screen is made from glass, has a sturdy plastic surround that will match the colour of most systems, and can be cleaned with a proprietary alcohol based cleaner.
1992	Installation is a fairly simple matter, the scanner plugs into the Complete Communicator card, so you don't need to open up the .
1992	You need DOS version 2.0 or higher, with 512 Kb of RAM and an IBM compatible to run the program.
1992	Disknet uses a single as a ‘gateway’ PC which means that the machine has been previously tested for viruses, and also has scanner software and the Disknet check program installed.
1992	3M Privacy Plus Screen PF400 Price: around £120.00 Company: 3M United Kingdom PLC.
1992	Tel: Action Supplies 0800 333 333 Orion Media Marketing PLC. 081 847 4141 The Little Red Book Company 0800 521 375
1992	They are designed to cut out the reflective glare that can be potentially harmful to someone spending long hours working in front of a screen.
1992	This is due to the use of a special microlouvre film, which only allows the person seated directly in front of it to see the information displayed on the 's monitor.
1992	The screen is made from glass, has a sturdy plastic surround that will match the colour of most systems, and can be cleaned with a proprietary alcohol based cleaner.
1992	Installation is a fairly simple matter, the scanner plugs into the Complete Communicator card, so you don't need to open up the .
1992	Windows and Graphics Intensive applications demand more and more speed from your .
1992	While the ideal solution is a fast 486 there are a lot of 386 machines still performing sterling service.
1992	This is, perhaps, only meaningful to those using aided design a lot.
1992	Most components are static sensitive.
1992	Availability: dealers or contact Intel for information
1992	For those of you new to computing we have a number of tutorials that will take you through the basics of your to those teaching you a new programming language.
1992	The concept of random text entry is one that find difficult to handle.
1992	People think in the most illogical way,(unless you are of Vulcan decent!) therefore are often of little help when trying to organise thoughts.
1992	The PC TUTOR is an essential program for all readers who wish to explore the potential of their further.
1992	You may then proceed through exercises in terminology which explain jargon words.
1992	It will also help teach your child interaction at an early age.
1992	The biorhythms program is simple and easy to use for those who know the subject but are not boffins.
1992	Even though I suspect the author works for Blue Peter the idea is a quite good one and hobbyists will enjoy using this package.
1992	KWS Knitwear Design is an asset for many home users who are knitting clothes by hand or machine.
1992	You must capture your opponents flag (the can be your opponent) before he gets yours.
1992	At the start one of these panels will flash and play a note, you must then repeat the sequence, the will then repeat the sequence back and add a note etc. etc.
1992	An excellent version of the popular board game Scrabble.
1992	You have the option of 1–4 players, or if you prefer the can play with you.
1992	This is a must for everybody with a home , and the one at work if your boss is away.
1992	When many of you received your a language called BASIC was possibly supplied on a disk, buried deep in the packaging.
1992	As novice programmers many of us are introduced to the world of languages via BASIC.
1992	This is a very good program but, if you are not a novice to spreadsheets or , you will find it frustrating as it will be too slow for you.
1992	This may seem like a backward step but for those users who only have a system and printer this program is ideal for completing any form that will fit in your printer.
1992	The Answering Machine is a fully featured jobbie, but requires that the system unit at least is switched on, and that Windows and the Teleputer software is running/minimised.
1992	Self-service
1992	Few things are as instantly heart-stopping to a user as the time when his machine starts to behave erratically.
1992	This can be purchased at any supply store (it's basically isopropyl alcohol), then you must activate the disk drive.
1992	An out-of-alignment head is usually caused by a bump — a rather big bump — to the .
1992	If you have dropped the , maybe only a few inches, and the failures started after this, then give your local repair man a ring for a quotation without delay or you could write a file to the disk which cannot be read back by another machine, or your own for that matter, when the heads have been realigned to their correct setting.
1992	Over the years I have had a few interesting experiences with hardware.
1992	After a spate of database crashes, and suffering the frustrating and time-consuming business of repeatedly reconstructing files and indexes, I was forced to consider that the mains supply to this particular was simply not clean enough for the to use.
1992	If this equipment is a , the spikes may inject spurious ‘data’ directly into the files without a word of warning from the software or the operating system.
1992	Although that sort of thing is nominally catered for by most electrical equipment, using spike suppression and smoothing circuitry, I reckoned that this particular was not up to the job of coping with the dirty mains, and so an uninterruptible power source was thought to be the only feasible answer.
1992	Any mains spikes are largely smoothed out while recharging the batteries, and a very clean 240 volts supply is reformed by an oscillator to power the .
1992	That's generally ample time for you to close down a database without panic, and to switch off the in an orderly fashion.
1992	Occasionally it can happen that a peripheral device in your may fail and bring the whole installation to a halt, even if you do not use that particular facility.
1992	But after a period of warming up, the would not reboot in either soft (Ctrl/Alt/Del) or hard (‘big red switch’) mode.
1992	There are other possibilities that might be checked in such circumstances before dispatching the .
1992	When early Amstrad carry out their self test at boot-up, a message ‘Please Wait…’ is put on the screen.
1992	When all is said and done, there may be no way to avoid the momentary grip of fear descending on you when unusual things start to happen on your , but I hope to have shown that this should not necessarily start a panic.
1992	Failing that, there is a chance that you might find someone sympathetic to your plight at an agency dealing with your particular model of .
1992	You might consider getting a local electrician or TV repair man to take a look at these before sending the away for a specialist repair shop's attention.
1992	I wonder if you are familiar with this type of thing and could it be applied to video outputs.
1992	On the subject of practical, electronic-type projects I have to say that I too miss them.
1992	I have recently bought a Panasonic KX-P1124i to use with MS Works on my .
1992	It is one of the facts of the world that there have always been far too many different printer types for the programmers to support and printer manufacturers have never managed to catch on to this simple fact.
1992	Both of these languages are capable of doing what you want and don't try to blind you with science.
1992	Shareware is rapidly becoming the most effective way to market software.
1992	Whether you are a novice or advanced user you will find programs and information that will be of use day after day, and at affordable prices.
1992	Shareware is the most modern of all marketing techniques used in the industry today.
1992	However, it seemed a shame to be able to design the forms using the and not be able to complete them on the same machine at a later point.
1992	Most of these make use of an external protocol program to receive or send programs to and from other .
1992	Once installed with the correct settings you can be talking to other within minutes.
1992	Odyssey also comes with host mode which means you can set your to wait for incoming calls.
1992	The concept of random text entry is one that find difficult to handle.
1992	People think in the most illogical way,(unless you are of Vulcan decent!) therefore are often of little help when trying to organise thoughts.
1992	It features Hayes modem support for telephone dialling so you can store address and telephone details and get the to dial the number for you.
1992	This is an ideal set of programs to introduce your children to and will keep them amused for months.
1992	You may then proceed through exercises in terminology which explain jargon words.
1992	PC-CAI is an award winning Assisted Instructional tool that is ideal for anyone wishing to develop a driven tutorial on any subject using colour, graphics, animation, questions and answers.
1992	A very comprehensive aided design program which encompasses aspects of 3D drawing.
1992	Call for a catalogue and discover the world of digital sound.
1992	The biorhythms program is simple and easy to use for those who know the subject but are not boffins.
1992	Every household should have a bible and what better way to look up favourite passages quickly than on your system.
1992	are an excellent tool for people with this interest as researchers often want to recall information on a person and add to it.
1992	KWS Knitwear Design is an asset for many home users who are knitting clothes by hand or machine.
1992	You play against the which makes the game even more interesting.
1992	Cunning football is an American football simulation game which can be played against the .
1992	It has an option for automation so you can watch the play both sides and note which plays are called to help you learn the rules.
1992	Power Chess is as expected a implementation of the famous strategic board game.
1992	The plays reasonably well, planning 5 moves ahead at certain points in the game.
1992	This one will also work on most IBM compatible machines with DOS 3.0 or higher, although the author informs us that it is not compatible with many Tandy 1000 .
1992	If you wish to learn more about the way in which your can communicate with the outside world then the RS232 tutor would be a good initial step.
1992	If you are thinking of connecting up two or exploring the world outside via modem then get this disk first and get primed up!
1992	The virus utilities are a must for every user concerned with security.
1992	This word processor will help your children come to grips with and word processing.
1992	Data is held temporarily within the cache until either a time delay expires, the is idle or the cache becomes full.
1992	Selecting this option is not, though, recommended for the weak-hearted or those with troublesome .
1992	The advantage is that executables have full access to the when loaded.
1992	PARENT'S GUIDE TO EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE AND
1992	Publishing Enterprises
1992	Lynn Stewart, the teacher and software ‘expert’, and Toni Michael, the writer, have got their heads and talents together to write this small (yes aren't books getting bigger and bigger these days) booklet for parents.
1992	There's several chapters convincing you that your kid really needs a at home (but you know that or you wouldn't have bought the book!) and there's a danger of ending up convincing yourself that your offspring could become educationally subnormal unless you get a immediately.
1992	After the ‘how your child's life can be enriched’ section, there's advise on the basics like deciding what you want the to do, finding the software to do it, finding a that will run the software and shopping for the best deal on service and support.
1992	There's loads of unbiased tips on how to ensure your child gets the most out of the and the software.
1992	In fact there's several chapters dedicated to software, particularly educational software and Toni Mitchell is obviously passionate about her subject…‘in 20 years of teaching I have never seen any teaching tool or method that captures the imagination and excites the enthusiasm and interest of the children as much as quality software.’
1992	I'm a comparative newcomer to this age that many people of my generation would rather try to ignore…but you really can't…and as an owner of a and an 8 year old, I found it a good read and picked up lots of new tips on home entertainment/education as well.
1992	The plain fact is that the feeble PC beep, usually allied to a tiny (and tinny) speaker is the laughing stock of the world — almost every other type of has sound capabilities that make the PC more to be pitied than laughed at.
1992	Symphony also includes a Comms package for communicating with other via a modem.
1992	Of course on Aided Design (CAD) or large Spreadsheets the 486 outperforms all comers.
1992	It can be so annoying, when using a colleagues , to be faced with a mishmash of open windows obscuring program icons and other boxes.
1992	The Ti'Ko Corporation sees the 386 as a thing of the past
1992	Ti'Ko, the West Lothian company with the Japanese sounding name, has decided to drop 386 based from its range.
1992	Items supplied as standard with every are Microsoft WinWindows 3.1, DOS 5.0, a Microsoft mouse, mouse mat, keyboard and a 14″ SVGA non-interlaced low-radiation monitor.
1992	The bus is a circuit which carries data between the various parts of the .
1992	Company: Ti'ko Corporation Ltd.
1992	This is a date and time serial number and corresponds to the time given by your 's system clock at the point you pressed the Enter key.
1992	CA-dBFast from Associates is a way around this problem.
1992	Supplier: Associates
1992	There is a lot to be said for ‘one-stop’ software that provides all the facilities you need to get you going with your and by combining a word processor, a spreadsheet and a database Works allows you to start using a PC without needing anything else.
1992	It also includes a Comms package but in order to take advantage of this facility you need a modem in your .
1992	A video link to the outside world gives the ‘eyes’ and brings new meaning to the phrase ‘What You See Is What You Get’.
1992	This can be saved to disk, displayed on your or included in documents.
1992	To use VidiPC you will need at least a 286 AT with 640Kb of RAM and a hard disk with enough room to store several images.
1992	As well as that, manufacturers have grown accustomed to buying the DOS for their machines from Microsoft, and many now pre-load Windows 3.1 onto their machines as well.
1992	On the other hand, if you go to any show, you'll see hordes of software and hardware manufacturers running Windows and Windows applications.
1992	Graphical User Interfaces are the best thing that has happened to .
1992	are like a foreign country in many ways.
1992	Life is hard enough without making it harder.
1992	Use a GUI, and treat your as a tool, not as a five year mission.
1992	Before beginning to use a , many people imagine that it will be very difficult, and panic rather because of this.
1992	The perfect is one of the myths of science fiction.
1992	Any user soon discovers that sometimes hardware, and more often software, is extremely fallible.
1992	There is a skill in coping with real life software and once you realise this fact you can start to live with your in something a little closer to harmony!
1992	If you know something about the deeper inner workings of then you can make use of this fact to guess what sort of things might cause a program some difficulties.
1992	Most programs are tested on big powerful and they are tested in conditions where there are enough resources — memory, disk space, printers even — to do the job successfully.
1992	Indeed it is a testimony to the value of that these poor souls still continue the struggle with the machine.
1992	This isn't superstition, it is just that some people seem to attack in a way that brings out the worst in them.
1990	Five phone voters will be chosen at random by to join the fun and rub shoulders with the stars.
1990	Five phone voters will be chosen at random by to join the fun and rub shoulders with the stars.
1990	Yet Indian engineers design software for US firms.
1990	A BUMBLING thieves who broke into a medical electronics company in Milton Keynes, Bucks, made a surprising haul — a that speaks only in Japanese.
1987	‘I am working on a new system in the industry.
1987	‘There is much diversity in the legal work and law is particularly fascinating because pioneering legal precedents are being developed.
1987	Those would include the raising of funds for the business default, bankruptcy or insolvency by customers and others, the acquisition, management and sale of plant equipment, hardware and software, sites, factories, shops and offices; the employment and disciplining of staff; industrial relations; regulatory compliance under a variety of statutes and subordinate legislation including data protection, health and safety at work, customer protection and competition, as well as administrative compliance with companies legislation.
1987	This means you could specialise in property, planning and construction; insurance; banking, merchant banking and asset finance; oil chemicals; pharmaceuticals; engineering; telecommunications; electronic and information technology; manufacturing of household or heavy industrial goods, ships, aircraft or vehicles; entertainment; leisure; imports and exports; distribution; marketing; advertising.
1987	Recent examples include a contract for the general building refurbishment of the Tyne Tunnel, contracts for both software and hardware for an automated tolls registration system.
1987	The County Council has assisted by providing me with a telephone and a personal linked to the main frame at County Hall.
1987	I now negotiate and advise on contracts.
1993	UPDATE
1993	Three of the pictures in this issue of BAIE News were taken by Ian Billinghurst on the DCS200, but a lot of work was needed before they could be transferred from the system at the BAIE convention to the system at Hardman Press Services.
1993	As reported in the October issue of Wood News , TESL's operations revolve around a system called MERCAD [Measurements Electronically Recorded Automated Draughting].
1993	Paul joined FWWG in November 1991 as a trainee instrument designer having already gained a HND in Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Glasgow Polytechnic — a fair achievement having started out on a Youth Training Scheme [YTS]course as a trainee programmer.
1993	Hamilton Oil are introducing a new system called ‘Impala’.
1993	The equipment consists of a portable linked to a sensor which travels along the pipe and examines it for defects.
1993	All work processed at the Company is tracked by , and all parts are accompanied by work control documents, in compliance with customers' requirements.
1992	project which educates children in the use of desktop publishing and provides equipment to winning schools.
1992	Our present system is analogue and the requirement for system links and data transmission may justify changing to a digital system.
1993	He was able to see for himself how problems of electrical interference from laptop are being tackled by our Electromagnetic Compatibility Unit.
1993	Much like the international telephone network and unlike UK-restricted e-mail, the Internet the worlds largest network is now accessible to you.
1993	As fast as FAX and having user groups for just about every and software product around, it is becoming one of the main channels for passing information around the scientific community for example, much of the debate on Cold Fusion was carried out over the Internet.
1993	Two days later, the most beautiful bloom burst forth which appeared to mimic a flow 3D diagram Margaret had been producing on her !
1993	He commented ‘Advanced software plays an important part in helping oil and gas reservoir engineers both to assess and devise exploitation strategies for oil field reserves.
1993	Irene said: ‘For my dissertation I wrote a fitness assessment based on information gained at Dounreay.
1993	Personal World (January 1993)— the free disk has been removed and the accompanying pages torn out of the journal.
1993	The Consultancy Services of AEA offer comprehensive support to the process industries in the implementation of IPC, help with the application for authorisation, pre-authorisation measurements, modelling, waste and pollution management strategies, as well as environmental assessments and audits.
1993	PLAC is a powerful but user-friendly program for the transient simulation of two-phase flows in pipelines and pipework.
1993	The resultant models are used in oil field development.
0000	An onboard in the driver's cab provides instant on-screen information about various lift/load configurations.
0000	At its training centre in Blackness Avenue, Altens, Aberdeen, the DPTC has classrooms, laboratories and a fully-equipped studio, as well as an advanced drilling simulator with full subsea and directional simulation.
0000	‘With the exception of a few broken sliding off desks, and other such minor damage, the plant came through the quake in good condition.
0000	Through an interface with a Hewlett-Packard supervisory , the measurement system will be connected to the Honeywell TDC3000 distributed control system with additional communications links to the terminal's computerised hydrocarbon accounting and tanker management systems.
0000	‘These systems are incredibly useful,’ says geologist Jacky Bannon.
0000	By taking the processing offshore on to the survey boat — the Geco Resolution — for the first survey over a prospect in Block 6, the seismic team were able to collapse the serial process of acquisition, processing and initial interpretation, to a parallel process.
0000	This meant putting more manpower — three extra BP people, three extra processors from seismic contractor Geco-Prakla — and a lot more hardware on the boat, says Nunn.
0000	The Engineering and Claims Handling Instructions are based on the current Engineering Policy wording SB2156 and Policy wording SB2201.
0000	This is supported by General Condition 2 of the Engineering and Policies which sets out the action to be taken by the Policyholder on the happening of any event which may give rise to a claim.
0000	All Claims for Consequential Loss failures exceeding $1,000 Theft Claims — dependent on amount and type of Plant — if in doubt refer H.O.
0000	Claims exceeding Branch handling limits which are: Engineering Claims $25,000 Claims $ 5,000 except for claims for Reinstatement of Data which should always be referred to H.O.
0000	The system will automatically recognise all claims which fall under categories (a),(b) and (c).
1992	There is a giant Christmas crossword with more than 150 clues, a film quiz and a children's quiz compiled by Tim Brownsett of the Barlaston department, and the ‘Turkey teaser.’
1992	Get into the mood for the annual festive feature film bonanza courtesy of Newsline's Christmas movie quiz compiled by Barlaston department's Tim Brownsett.
1992	Children can get into the Christmas spirit with our fun festive teasers from Tim Brownsett in the Barlaston department.
1992	This is partially tissue-typed and the details are entered onto a central .
1992	All personal details are treated as strictly confidential and remain on file.
1992	Newsline's very own quiz king, Rim Brownsett of Barlaston's department, removes the Santa Claus beard to reveal his true identity.
1992	Mark Shingler and Andrew Whiston, of the Barlaston department, are analysing data from the questionnaire and collating the results.
1992	AFTER three years' study, analyst programmer Ray Marsh from the Barlaston department has achieved a Higher National Diploma qualification in studies.
1992	IN our picture on the right, Phil Pountain, of the department, Barlaston, receives gift vouchers from information systems executive Paul Campbell-Kelly to mark his 25th year with the Wedgwood Group.
1992	He has worked in the department for around 20 years and plans to put his award of gift vouchers towards a holiday break.
1992	THE new dust press machine at Eagle Pottery features a VDU monitor and is controlled.
1992	We have taken on board some new technologies, a simulation package and a CAD system, which have significantly improved efficiency in the department,’ said Phil.
1992	simulation provides project engineers with graphic descriptions of the principal elements of plant in action at factory sites allowing them to study manufacturing process operations in detail.
1992	The analyst programmer based at the Barlaston department, who compiles all of the quizzes for Newsline, came top from 32 teams of four.
1992	‘Faxfinders’ work means that a print out of all outstanding orders of odd lids and bases is produced and sent out to production areas.
1992	generated slides are made in-house to support staff training and client presentations.
0000	One other thing I nearly forgot to mention, just to please the administration staff, ‘’, they are all ordered and will be in place early in the New Year, isn't that something to look forward to?
0000	The branch management system will go ‘live’ in the East in January and be introduced across the whole Division during the year.
1991	The generated imagery and the reproduction of the various different airport locations, really did create an atmosphere of being behind the controls of a 737.
1991	The use of these enables service technicians to record all service treatments, the preparations used, the time spent at each site, and the treatment cycles completed.
1991	The data packs in the PSIONS are off loaded on to the mainbranch ensuring that records are kept up to date.
0000	Formal assessment of modifications submissions is vital and Jill Featherstone of & documentation at Torness keeps the paperwork moving.
0000	‘Their system is very poor.
0000	Very often, the computing power of the PCs carried by members of the IAEA team was significantly greater than their mainframe .
1991	Europe in the Round is a software package.
1991	Information technology: the ability to use to sort, process and retrieve information and to present information in forms appropriate to a particular purpose and audience.
1991	Each module assumes only a basic familiarity with .
1991	There were problems in a few centres, perhaps because the idea of a closing date was new or perhaps because local systems caused delays.
1991	His section has all National Certificate data on : on it, all enquiries from candidates, letters from SCOTVEC and replies from centres are logged.
1991	The advantages of transferring data electronically are clear, according to Craig Robertson, Assistant Director of Services.
1991	If a centre wants to find out about compatibility of their system and SCOTVEC's or wants information on specifications to set up a system, contact myself or my colleague Fraser MacFarlane.
1991	Our new system is intended to monitor course registrations, but more students have registered than were represented on the printout.
1991	Of the individual modules in the Catalogue, Introduction to continued to be the single most popular in all sectors, with nearly 11,000 candidates.
1991	In Further Education, the PSD module 81188 Induction attracted twice as many candidates as in 1988/89, becoming fifth most popular; another large increase in enrolment was for 81095 Introduction to Application Packages.
1988	Apart from skills in accounting, mathematics and communications, employers stressed the need for knowledge and skills in the use of and business software.
1988	The HNC in Aided Engineering
1988	The results of an MSC-funded Local Collaborative Project, investigating the training needs of the local electronics industry and completed in 1986, highlighted the need in Fife to train and retrain engineers and technicians in hybrid skills and the techniques involved in Aided Engineering.
1988	At the time that these discussions were taking place, SCOTVEC had embarked upon its Advanced Courses Development Programme, and the college therefore seized the opportunity to meet these local training needs by submitting a proposal for a unitised HNC in Aided Engineering.
1988	The incorporation of these units in the Core Programme provides a balance to complement the more ‘technological’ units of Aided Engineering.
1988	It has been found that students qualified in one discipline have opted to select units with emphasis in another, eg two students with a ‘mechanical’ background have elected to do Aided Design with an Electrical bias.
1988	having more applications of in academic areas allows a more effective use of time, eg the teaching of the Principles of Network Analysis is backed up by BBC Software (MITEYSPICE) thus reducing laborious mathematical calculations.
1988	a Typesetting, Graphic Reproduction & Machine Printing suite of work shops;
1988	An example of this process from the APL pilot project is that of a client who had worked in a laboratory for a number of years and was involved in setting up systems and software for recording and analysing data within a developing system.
1989	The number of NVQs certified grew dramatically and the new system increased the turnaround time on certificates substantially.
1989	PROGRAMMING Special English Series Cassell 1978 128 pp
1989	The job of the programmer, the programmer's tools, interpretation, making and shifting, file.
1989	A presentation which provides a realistic management situation designed to stimulate discussion among business English students.
1989	An annotated glossary which includes detailed explanations of the most commonly used terms in shipping, banking, insurance, , and general commercial transactions.
1989	Cassell 1986 (reprint 1988) 128 pp
1989	Special English Series — What is a ?
1989	The history of the , Hardware, the Control Processor, Data, The Programmer, the Systems Analyst etc.
1989	APPLICATIONS Special English Series Cassell 1980 128 pp
1989	Living with : Steelmaking, Medicine, Local Government Research, Banking and Finance, Design, Education, Public Utilities, Printing and Publishing, Retail Grocery, Air Freight, Cause for Celebration?
1989	Units based on tools, engines, , construction, energy, fluids, from STARTER through to TASK.
1989	ENGLISH FOR SCIENCE Oxford University Press 1988 (2nd edition) 241 pp
1989	Information on components and processes.
1989	A ‘must’ for any student who is into .
1989	Electronic storage and retrieval of information; files.
1989	The candidates may be required to produce a memo from a telex, cable, letter or printout; or an abstract from an article; or a summary of a phone call for discussion; or a telex/telegram/cable from a company notice, employer's instructions, etc.
1991	Readers wishing to use lap-top are increasing in number, and to accommodate those whose machines are not totally silent, acoustic hoods have been provided.
1990	Their work includes giving advice to clients, particularly institutional investors, investment research, and the application of techniques and forecasts.
1990	Besides the more obvious areas for employment, actuaries are to be found applying their skills in the academic world, in development, operational research and as business consultants.
1990	In recent years considerable research has been undertaken to build models of asset performance and returns and their correlation with liabilities.
1990	programmes have been developed and are available for calculating a wide range of actuarial functions.
1993	He was recruited from the industry, having worked for Honeywell and Wang where he was on the sales and marketing side.
1993	‘The biggest switch was from corporate clients to retail ones, although this industry has gone through such a massive change from the quill pen to integrated telephone systems with .’
1993	‘Basic keyboard skills have to be there — we wouldn't want to go the lengths of having to train them on that — but training on our specialist software means bringing them in for a week and we'll probably bring them in every three months to keep updating them.’
1993	Again, with 386-megabyte , diskfax and modems ‘it isn't difficult to set up a valuable resource you can tap into at any time’(he sees ample scope for expanding not only into other languages but building on expertise already gained in mailshot databases and distribution) and British Telecom has been ‘very responsive’.
1993	Apart form requiring a certain amount of self-discipline from those doing it (and when the legality of remote logging of work-rate seems doubtful under the health and safety laws for VDU operators), the tasks which seem capable of being gone this way seem to boil down to two types: self-contained project assignments (programming, report writing, design) and batch-related clerical work (data entry or telesales).
1993	‘If you look at something like raising a purchase order, what it tends to involve is combining bits of paper from different departments and only at the very end is a entry made — which is not a massive improvement on all-paper systems,’ said .
1993	For many, the very phrase risk management may have been a switch off even before the experts started whipping up the campaign with the emphasis on the disaster scenario — terrorist bombings, sinking oil tankers, fraud, kidnap and fires.
1993	‘For example, in a utility company engineering will be important but in a financial services business play a much more vital role and so someone from the IT department will be essential.’
1993	Coming from the other direction, the internal auditor is said by some to have the right background in systems of control by may be, at least initially, too much focused on the, albeit increasingly onerous, financial and issues.
1993	Most importantly, partners who do not want to know how technology works or to learn how to use must be able to call up all the necessary client and administrative information they require.
1993	are one of the aids to achieving effective control of costs and time.
1993	The problem which many firms face is overcoming ‘techno-fear’ and taking the plunge into a new system.
1993	Common concerns are the expense of a system and ignorance of how work.
1993	Alasdair MacCormick, who runs Law Practice Management, a consultancy which advises on the selection of systems, feels that knowing how work is not important.
1993	Analysing how the firm works and breaking that down into work which demands your professional training and expertise and work which does not is more important, since it allows the firm to work out the applications it needs.
1993	Computing power has never been cheaper, he added, but the cost of your system will be too high if you don't make full use of it.
1993	‘Many firms use only ten to 25 per cent of their 's capability,’ he said.
1993	Do not be afraid to ask ‘silly’ questions and don't buy power until you need it.
1993	A lot of firms need to buy power when their administrative work takes up too much time.
1993	The firm introduced Signet, a tailor-made system which has made financial accounting very much faster and also handles word processing requirements.
1993	His firm took advice form consultants at the University of Strathclyde before buying their system, to ensure minimal redundancy and the potential for infinite future expansion.
1993	It has been designed to be used by the professionals themselves who do not, said Moore Stephens, have the time or inclination to learn about but appreciate the efficiency benefits which technology brings to administration.
1993	‘The world does not need just another exhibition…’
1993	A recent survey in the US found a huge disparity between the interest of users and those of the supposedly user-friendly industry there: for instance, while security loomed in the minds of buyers as their number one concern, among the vendors it ranked just seventeenth.
1993	‘The world does not need just another exhibition, PC show, networking conference, Windows show or other niche event,’ he said.
1993	Yet the aim is for individuals on both sides to come together and explore, ex tempore, mutual areas of interest in the conference venue, the Glasgow Hilton,(’ I expect a lot of the business to be done in the corridors’, said Howell) or at the Solutions Show which runs simultaneously at the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre.
1993	Customs & excise intends to update a disk monthly and exchange details of tax traders with other EC member states.
1993	However, the author, Bodipala Wijeysinghe, has now made the disc available to Hospitality readers and it can be obtained from Iris Tworogal at ,, price £10.
1993	It also has a magnificent wine cellar, with around 3000 bottles, stored in cupboards which have the temperature controlled by to ensure that every variety is held at the correct level.
1993	At its sister hotel, L'Hotel, also in Toronto, $25,000 was saved in one year when it swapped its 40W fluorescent tubes for 30W tubes; the Hotel Vancouver has installed a to monitor and control energy use throughout the building and received a $19,000 rebate from the power company in one month; and the Hotel Macdonald, Alberta, is saving $1000 a month on waste collection.
1993	A series of databases has been produced, matching open learning material to the occupational standards for different sectors of industry.
1993	No specialist knowledge of is needed — there is a series of menus to help you select what to look for, and a ‘Windows’ version of the database is soon to be available.
1992	The project to replace the Institute's main system has been a major task throughout the year.
1993	Using with Very Young Children
1993	As a teacher researcher wanting to investigate the effect of new technology in school, one of the lines of research I followed was to use a questionnaire to ascertain the attitudes of my pupils to .
1993	A ‘Likert’ survey is made up of a series of statements which are related to a person's attitude to a single object, in this case using in school.
1993	Using a in school is exciting.
1993	I would prefer the teacher to explain things rather than the .
1993	The Semantic-Differential method of measuring attitudes devised by Osgood consists of a concept, in this case using in schools, and a set of bipolar scales.
1993	The response above would mean that the pupil found using in school very exciting, quite interesting and useless for girls.
1991	The Matthew Nelson laboratory designed to meet the special needs of students with physical disabilities was opened in Murray Hall with equipment for the laboratory being generously donated by the Hewlett Packard Company.
1991	One such initiative is the Arts Multimedia Centre, due to be opened in February 1993, which will provide opportunities for the European languages to follow the lead given by Japanese in the development of assisted language learning.
1992	Many Make Light Work
1992	The performance of improves at an astounding rate, perhaps unlike any other machine in the world.
1992	However, they are now hitting physical limits to increasing performance and if this impressive progress is to be continued new approaches to speeding up performance will need to be developed.
1992	Thirty years ago users were happy their could perform each second one million simple mathematical operations, called floating point operations or Flops.
1992	The first company to build a able to perform at 100 million Flops per second (100 megaFlops), was Cray Research in 1975.
1992	There are now companies in Japan, Europe and the US building which can perform over a billion operations per second (a gigaFlop).
1992	Many researchers who use are still not satisfied with this impressive performance.
1992	Weather researchers hope to predict more accurately short term weather with complex mathematical models, given faster .
1992	Other tasks which require immense power are modelling the behaviour of quarks, one of the smallest particles known to man, or studying the flow of air over an airplane wing.
1992	In view of these needs and the long standing trends in speed increases, scientists naturally hope to have more powerful to allow work on these problems in the near future.
1992	The most important approach, which is reaching its limits, is to increase the rate at which the 's components are ‘clocked’, how often they are told to perform simple operations.
1992	Physicists tell us that nothing in the universe can travel faster than the speed of light, and this applies to signals inside a , too.
1992	Increasing the rate at which a is clocked also decreases the amount of time available for a given signal to proceed though the wires and circuits of the .
1992	The ability to cut down the distance signals travel by reducing the size of the is limited by the amount of heat the components generate; a that is too small will get too hot.
1992	So if increasing the speed of a 's components is limited by the speed of light, how will one ever build increasingly faster ?
1992	The solution is simple; set more than one small , or processor, working on the same problem at the same time.
1992	The amount of work in a programme is shared out amongst the different processors of the .
1992	EPCC is an interdisciplinary centre, with people from backgrounds such as science, physics and engineering coming together to aid in the dissemination of this new technology, as well as to perform fundamental research into the correct way to build and use parallel .
1992	The Centre now has some of the most powerful in Europe, thereby already establishing the potential of parallel .
1992	As recently as September 1991 a new parallel , called the Connection Machine 200, was installed in the King's Buildings of the University.
1992	This is roughly the equivalent power of 10,000 personal .
1992	It is used primarily to assist in the UK ‘Grand Challenge’, a government initiative designed to have solve some of the fundamental problems in physics and engineering.
1992	The architectures for parallel still cover a large range, and these two machines represent two disparate approaches — using a small number of quite powerful processors, or a large number of weaker processors.
1992	The diversity of parallel located at EPCC has allowed researchers to try to determine which of these two approaches works best.
1992	All these problems regarding parallel have yet to be solved by the large community of researchers in the field, but their solution will dictate the nature of future supercomputers.
1992	Four ‘free mover’ students — one from Bulgaria, three from Poland — are at Edinburgh studying science, medicine and law.
1992	scientists, logicians, linguists, psychologists and biologists from Edinburgh, Glasgow and Durham Universities collaborate to understand human information processing in terms of computation.
1992	HCRC Director,, invites us to consider the ‘human ’.
1992	are engineers' boxes which process numbers (and maybe letters) in just the ways that humans find most difficult.
1992	Humans are emotional beings who excel at misunderstanding .
1992	Within this enlarged idea of computation, people are .
1992	They are of immensely greater sophistication and a different type to engineers' boxes, but nevertheless.
1992	40 years on, linguists, psychologists, engineers, scientists know each other better and also have learnt why solving the general version of this problem is still years away.
1992	The numbers you request from directory enquiries are read out to you by a speech generating (other than a person).
1992	These computations were not seen as hard to explain until engineers tried to programme the newly available ‘’ to perform them.
1992	Of course, these are not the abilities which we pride ourselves upon, and we are much more likely to be impressed by the few things which do well which we do badly.
1992	Human computation is as incompetent (measured by engineered standards) as it is miraculous.
1992	The , which of course doesn't find it at all funny, needs to guess what it is, and needs to rely not just on sentence structure but also on general knowledge about heads, grenades and buckets of sand — general knowledge that don't have unless it is built in to them.
1992	It is a commonplace that natural human languages are vague whereas languages are precise.
1992	So much the worse for ?
1992	Another project seeks to understand precisely the vagueness of natural language, not only so that we can communicate better with , but also because vagueness is a valuable commodity for computation in general.
1992	The system for expressions of vague information built into human languages is of great subtlety and precision and if we can unravel its complexities, engineers will be only too happy to make vague.
1992	This project will now generalise its findings to the graphical teaching of more powerful logics and to the choice of media of expression in the design of interfaces.
1992	Some people react to the notion that a human being might be understood as a of a certain sort as demeaning of what is special about human beings.
1992	BT is supporting a major research project within the University's Centre for Speech Technology Research to design and test generated dialogues for more efficient and flexible automated telephone services.
1992	Even today, with the growth of in every branch of business, it is rare to find a man who can explain himself in simple English.
1993	You must not use official equipment for private purposes — this includes the mail service, stationery, computerised equipment (eg use of software packages for playing games), telephone facilities, vehicles, photocopiers, facsimile machines and any other resources which you have use of during your work.
1993	We regard allowing others authorised access to ES systems, whether deliberately or through negligence, in the same light.
1993	This means, for example, failure to properly safeguard access cards, like TRES and NUBS 2 keys or passwords.
1993	You must take all reasonable precautions to safeguard official security passes, access cards and passwords (for example TRES and NUBS 2 keys) and all official documents.
1993	You may have noticed that recent issues of NOTES have given people with visual impairments the chance to have NOTES on a DOS text file on disk, to use with aids such as screen magnifiers, synthetic speech generators or electronic braille.
1992	Other publications included guidance on medical evidence, on acting for children and on using , and the second and third editions respectively of the highly successful Conveyancing Handbook and the Directory of Solicitors and Barristers .
1991	Whisky and remain Scotland's most important export products.
1991	Once again the dominance of and whisky is very clearly illustrated.
1990	We have now received a report from Services on a Committee Management System.
1990	This note is to give you a quick update — the report still has to go to the Needs Group.
1990	Services are recommending working towards a Council-wide office automation (OA) network in three phases.
1990	What I want to ensure is that Services aspirations for Phases 2 and 3 do not cause unnecessary delay or additional cost to an improvement in the Committee Division's use of .
1990	I am pleased to be able to confirm that the setting up of Council Tax liabilities for individual properties is now complete within the software, with the exception of a few properties where the rebate entitlement has still not to be finally resolved.
1990	I had understood from previous meetings that additional accommodation requirements for the introduction of Council Tax would be provided by the use of vacant space within Warriston's Close, space recently vacated by Services.
1990	I confirm, in accordance with the Assistant Director's previous memorandum, that additional space is required in Warriston's Close from mid November onwards in order to deal with Council Tax data collection and preparation.
1990	144 Council Tax Assistants — GS3 (incorporating Technology)
1990	Existing permanent staff recruited to the Council Tax Assistant posts will receive higher overall basic earnings through the consolidation of Technology Payments and placement on the salary spinal column.
1990	A further advantage is that the higher new salary will form the basis for future overtime payment calculations whereas Technology Payments were excluded.
1990	The Community Charge Control Team should therefore be restricted to and management control functions under the separate supervision of the Assistant Director, that is outwith the operational line management.
1990	I am writing to advise that I have taken over the role of Liaison Officer for the Trading Standards Department.
1990	The Regional Council's Code of Practice on the Introduction of Technology (May 1989) made provision for voluntary screening arrangements for V.D.U.
0000	I also hope my draft letter reached you (a) by fax and (b) follow up hard copy and that it fits acceptably on ONE page in BAIE typeface on BAIE ?
1992	The weather was so vile most of the time, and John so busy that we had quite a contented and simple domestic time, John whizzing away at the and me in the (cane) rocking chair with my feet up on another reading away.
1992	I walked — in amazing Cecil B de Mille film type downpour yesterday for tea with a young lawyer son of one of John's contemporaries at Gordonstoun, so that he could help me finalise the leaflet for a seminar on 14th January in respect of INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, which many think is akin to copyright and so on but it embraces much more than that nowadays, especially in respect of , TV and sound usage, collaboration in respect of research and development projects which eat investments budgets and so on.
1992	Although I had ‘backed up’ on a floppy disc from the I lost both floppy and hard disc record on Friday (yes 13th) and it was all my address list — twenty pages this size of single line entries and with just a double space between As and Bs and Cs and Ds etc.; I could have wept but had instead to laugh — only thing to do and a mistake or combination of same that I shall NOT make again.
1992	The unusual job I have for a few weeks is to collect unpublished or limited circulation material for whizzkid boffins in Oxford to tag and analyse on .
1993	At the other extreme, communication can be sophisticated and technologically advanced satellite transmissions or digitally encoded signals; these are tools of mass communication.
1988	Geoff Tulloch ran programme after programme in an attempt to arrive at the most efficient method of organisation.
1988	Our cherished records were enfolded by large new cardboard boxes tied with pink tape and marked with inscrutable codes.
1988	He had given us the codes to chalk on the outside of the boxes, but you wouldn't have caught him packing files into the boxes or wrapping them up with pink tape afterwards.
0000	Virtual Reality the of the future.
0000	In the other building is the main office, staff room,Headmaster's office, sick room, Main Hall, Dining room, Technology room, Home Economics room, Conference room, Library, English rooms, Geography room, Art room, Textiles room, room, Religious studies and History and maths rooms are shared rooms.
1990	So he started work in the office and showroom, a long narrow room on the first floor with windows that looked out onto the street, with shelves filled with lines of business machines, , word processors, the screens flickering as Lewis, Barnett's other assistant, experimented with them.
1990	Tim had worked with at school, then in the high street shops, writing programs, trying out the games, until he began to act as unpaid demonstrator to the crowds of watching children, and the assistants didn't mind his presence.
1990	They have these , you touch the keys, they do everything for you.’
1990	‘They can do anything with .
1987	So we were able to tell how many tickets of certain classes were sold each day but not route by route, we'd lost that  that facility because the waybills just weren't big enough and of course the,wa everything got mechanical but now I mean I don't profess to know anything about what happens now but I was introduced to it when I went down there for a retirement  and believe me it's, it's all electronics now they can tell how a ticket machine is issuing tickets at any particular one day by this, this electronic business, this .
1989	Do you remember the introduction of, sort of or any sort of mechanized typewriters ?
1989	and erm of course didn't help in the slightest because er, I think the er, I may be wrong about this but as I understood it erm the programmer worked for West Suffolk but at the time of reorganization he'd got himself another job.
1989	and erm, they had er, er a lot of girls over at Birmingham who used to prepare these cards for the
1993	I've got er a file named A B C dot dot U K One on a disk so it could be a hard disk or a floppy disk it doesn't matter and er when I retrieve the file, Lotus takes a copy of that file and places it, places it into what's known as the memory of the .
1993	Inside the if you open up the you see these little chips, silicon chips they're about a centimetre perhaps in length and you'll see a row of, nine or ten of them, that's physically what the memory is.
1993	So when you're looking at a file on the screen, what you're looking at is the file as it is in the, in the memory of the , and if you change your spreadsheet, then all you're doing is changing what's in the memory.
1993	You're not changing anything that's on the at all.
1993	Memory is a bit of a misnomer erm, because if you switch the off and switch it back on again, the file won't be there any more, because it hasn't remembered it.
1993	The disk, however does remember keeping the file there, if you switch the off, your hard disks will keep the file there, floppy disks, of course, keep the files on the disk.
1993	There's all sorts of accidents not only having the switched off, you might accidentally mess the file up or erase it or whatever, er, you've still got the original copy on the disk so if you keep saving it every ten minutes or so, then you always  lose more than ten minutes' work.
1993	It's a zero or a one, everything in is stored as zeros or ones.
1993	Now everything in is stored away as, er numbers and a certain set of numbers represent all the different characters.
1993	Not a strange number to a , though.
1993	But to a it's a very round number.
1993	bytes
1993	bytes.
1993	So in terms of overall speed, that method could be quicker, but I don't recommend you use it actually, because it's risky.
1993	Erm, you want to put your own files in directories in the same way.
1993	Er, but any change you make to a system, is likely to introduce bugs into the system, so that it doesn't give the right answers any more.
1993	If there's something that isn't working, there's a well known adage with , don't fix it.
1993	And that certainly applies to building systems.
1993	Good idea to have a list of all the file names, cos er, you may want to copy this system to some other .
1993	Basically, if you write a manual for somebody else to use, then er  there's a standard layout of manuals, manuals, that is to have a Getting Started section, tells you how to instal in  some of the basics like how to start it running, erm, the How To section is very important.
1993	Over to the to the right, erm, give me er three very important parts of the documentation?
1991	science
1991	and science  I mean, that's where the answers all come, I'm quite sure, I'm just sceptical, that we know how much about it.
1993	We know Koresh started work because the disk containing his first chapter survived the fire.
1993	The megastores, games, publishing, and even airships, all trade under the Virgin name.
1993	N M Rothschild and Tattersalls of Australia, the Rank Organization, and Camelot comprising of G Tec, De La Rue, Reikel, Cadbury Schweppes, and I C L. Installing and ticketing machines will be a key part of the job for any lottery operator.
1993	Shops like this sell lottery tickets all over California, these machines link directly to G Tec's mainframe .
1993	The decision created ripples throughout California, Joanne  is a expert, she was head of the technical division at the California state lottery until her firing earlier this year after a period of sick leave.
1993	Processing scratch cards like this needs a central system, last year a hundred and fifty million dollar contract to do the job was awarded to a smaller rival, High Integrity Systems, in April Mrs  cancelled that contract, after, the company says sixty five million dollars had been spent on the project.
1993	Personal information about us, once typed on record cards or stuffed into filing cabinets is now kept on , information which once even the bank manager or doctor couldn't find is now accessible to thousands through a keyboard, and everyday this information is routinely sold, to employers investigating potential and current employees, to companies investigating competitors and customers, and to anyone willing to pay in a trade which grows, uncontrolled, daily.
1993	Nowadays there's an enormous amount of information about us kept in , and there are laws which certainly sound as though they should stop it falling into unauthorized hands.
1993	This back scratching may include taking data directly from the banks , but more often it provides details of the bank's systems, which makes it easier for the enquiry agent to embark on the well timed impersonation.
1993	The act really sets out to control the users who have information on all of us, or on individuals generally, and their servants or agents, their employees and so on, it doesn't set out to control these third parties.
1993	The misuses act sounds like another law which might help, it's enforced at this police unit in London, but it too seems powerless to stop outsiders impersonating or bribing their way to get hold of personal data.
1993	The misuse act is aimed at criminal activity, it was primarily aimed at people who either hack into other or misuse the that are in front of them.
1993	Now because of course we now have more in society than we ever did before, and we don't have lots of paper files before us inevi invariably, the information is being held upon the .
1993	It is aimed either at the external hacker of which there are far fewer than press reports suggest or at the employee who though they have legitimate access legitimate lim limited access to a , nevertheless go beyond that authorization, but in order for the act to be successful, in order to get a successful prosecution, the prosecution have got to show that the access was unauthorized, and in the absence of clear codes of conduct, clear on-screen messages, that can be quite tricky.
1993	Banks don't like to admit that there employees let secrets escape from their , which is possibly why none of the individual banks were willing to appear in this programme.
1993	Basically what happens when you start signing on is you go into a national unemployment , and that national unemployment will pick up, as long as you've got the date of birth and the national insurance number, you can pick up when a person started signing o and where they're signing, you then check with the local office to see what address they're claiming from and what their claiming for and everything else.
1993	also managed to gain access to yet another , he got her ex-directory telephone number.
1993	The same sanction is also meant to protect criminal records in the police national , but even here it's not a sufficient deterrent.
1993	it's relatively straightforward, his own will give access to it.
1993	's criminal record, along with five million others, is stored here on the police national , based at Hendon.
1993	More than one and a half thousand local police stations have online access to the .
1993	Relaxed and expansive in his office, explained how he used a local policeman to obtain details from  's criminal record on the police national .
1993	No that's that's off the the P N C it I mean it's obviously through his local police station but it's off the the the national .
1993	And when you talk to them they will say we can find out whether they've got a criminal record or not, how can they offer that service in the public domain without having access to your ?
1993	details several cases details from the er the police national , er for sale at prices varying from sort of fifty pounds to a hundred and fifty pounds
1993	However, serious action to close the loopholes in the law will have to wait on the parliamentary timetable and the European legislation, until then, with more and more companies wanting to know the truth about their employees, competitors and suppliers, and with more and more information being put onto , the trade in personal data looks set to thrive.
1987	And then he bought a to use in the house, nowhere else like,s it was still his house was his kingdom.
1987	So hearing there was classes here, he started coming and he didn't like it and he stopped.
1987	And then after a couple of weeks he still couldn't get on with his , so he came back.
1987	And he stayed, and now he drops in here most days of the week and he practically runs the class in there.
1988	And we propose to do that by extending the traditional model of client server computing, the essentially departmental solution, across the enterprise to integrate multiple systems across multiple  multiple .
1988	If we look at this client server model today one of the most significant advantages it delivers is that it allows us to run different kinds of applications on different .
1988	They will be different in terms of the sort of interaction they expect to have with  depending on whether they're  data entry people or management users and maybe some of our users are people in the street, our customers er who who will increasingly become users of systems themselves.
1988	Of course in fantasy land it's very easy to build systems.
1988	Once you've built your system it will run all the time certainly all the time .
1988	Of course I have to say that er software fails as well sometimes  and indeed one of the problems we all have is that with today's hardware technologies some of the er are so fast that it really reaches the bugs rather quicker.
1988	With centralized systems, if the goes down, the entire system goes down, but we still need to make business decisions.
1988	Back in the nineteen seventies hardware was very expensive and difficult to use.
1988	Only highly trained professionals dared to interact with a .
1988	In the nineteen nineties with the tumbling costs of hardware we can adv afford to provide more and more people in our enterprise-with access to a or the information within in.
1988	And this simply shifts the cost of providing that solution to an investment in the people and not the hardware.
1988	We have a an order entry clerk who's now ordering hundreds of orders a day and that is from a printout from our customers and that printout has come form the system of our customers.
1988	So we have several levels of interaction with a in terms of entering information.
1988	So we can get rid of all of those different costly interactions with a with er interactions of com of of paper output erm dumb terminal input paper output dumb terminal input.
1986	ledgers that are now on the archives could be l placed down there and  fascinated me because he could add a column of pounds, shillings and pence, he'd take his three fingers at the bottom of the long ledger column, and as fast practically like a , would add to the top and then put it in pencil.
1993	One of the region's universities is to spend thousands of pounds installing the latest high tech equipment.
1993	Hundreds of students have just begun their first term and are essential in just about every subject.
1993	Now the university has decided to spend one hundred and fifty thousand pounds installing more than a hundred of the latest .
1993	Staff say the will be used for everything from report writing to course registration.
1991	If those paper debts were wiped out in the that prints your monthly statement, would it make any difference in real terms to anyone else?
1991	‘More money, more money!’ he demands, and clever minds set to work at his behest, the shift and change a little all over the world, and presently his bank balance shows another nought; and, so that that nought should be there, somewhere in the undeveloped world another ten backs break needlessly.
1991	— shampoos, conditioners, shoe horns — whoever uses shoe horns?— our one suitcase each, the few clothes neatly hung: our personal , reference books — the tools of our trade.
1991	Ben spent so much time playing games, barely pausing to eat, that lately I'd sometimes wondered if he knew I existed at all.
1991	Both women were transferring confidential student records from file cards on to .
1991	When it finally does link up the will explode.’
1991	Unless Ben remains a freak — he has his father's appreciation of the mathematics, the square lines, the patterning out of existence; unless Sophie fails to lose a little of her egoism — or unless Hugo objects to their visits.
1993	I'm doing that course in the spring.
1991	By programming the to ensure that their own flights appeared first on the screen, incumbent airlines put new entrants at a disadvantage.
0000	The last two decades have witnessed vast improvements in the capabilities of .
0000	Despite these technological advances there have been few developments in the method of communicating with the , which remains keyboard-based.
0000	Firstly, it would make it easier for users who are unfamiliar with keyboards to communicate with the by using their normal handwriting.
0000	Secondly, existing paper documents could be scanned into the enabling them to be further processed without the necessity of reproducing the original.
0000	For the purpose of this project text is categorised in terms of how it is produced (i.e. printed by a machine or handwritten by a person), and how it is input to the for recognition (i.e. is it recognised dynamically as a person writes or already existing text which is scanned in).
0000	Printed text may be produced by a or typewriter.
0000	Hand-printed text is less natural for adults to produce but is simpler for a to recognise.
0000	The method by which the text is to be input to the is also important.
0000	There are two general methods for inputting text into a .
0000	The first is to provide a more natural method for communicating with .
0000	The second involves conversion of already existing paper documents into a format that the can process.
0000	Natural Communication with
0000	Communication with and controlled machinery is normally achieved using a QWERTY keyboard.
0000	Longer communications with the are extremely difficult for novice users and almost certain to produce errors.
0000	Attempts have been made to improve upon keyboard communication with the .
0000	Most noticeably the mouse has become a prominent accessory.
0000	As become increasingly available to non-typists more natural means of communicating with them are sought.
0000	Writing allows private communication with the that is not possible with speech recognition.
0000	For an extended communication with a the ability to edit the input is an important consideration.
0000	It is often inconvenient (or impossible) to complete a communication with a in a single session.
0000	However, recent hardware developments have resulted in electronic paper — a tablet-LCD device which unifies the monitor and graphics tablet.
0000	Despite considerable research and investment a large discrepancy exists between human and recognition of speech.
0000	The commercial success of even such limited systems would suggest that now, more than ever, handwriting presents a medium for natural communication with that is convenient, flexible and possible.
0000	Although communication between is becoming increasingly common, paper (and FAX) remains the principal medium of communication in the business world.
0000	Unfortunately text on paper cannot be manipulated by .
0000	The need to enter printed text or data into without the effort of re-keying it is the driving force behind the development of optical character recognition (OCR) technology.
0000	Using this technology text is entered into the via a scanner and software then classifies the characters from the pixel representation.
0000	Alternate ways of communicating with are required which do not require a keyboard.
0000	An ulterior motive for performing text recognition is to convert existing printed material into a format that permits further processing.
0000	In general, computational linguists are more willing to accept systems that are able to process a useful range of language input.
0000	Another important motivation is that of the psycholinguists who develop parsing systems as test-beds for hypotheses about human linguistic processing.
0000	It is also the area in which most work has occurred in systems for language processing.
0000	One must first consider the available at the time, which were roughly equivalent in power to an average modern programmable calculator.
0000	In question-answering systems the generates answers to the user's query based on stored information.
0000	This application is of benefit for queries to a that take place over a telephone and also for providing reading aids for the blind.
0000	In the 1960's were rare and very expensive and the only text acquisition method for corpus compilers was manual input.
0000	With the now established as an indispensable accessory in the workplace the volume of text available in a machine-readable format has become massive.
0000	The first large corpus to be tagged was the Brown corpus of American English.
0000	The artificial intelligence community aim at producing programs that can ‘understand’ the input.
0000	Firstly there is the question of efficiency which may depend on the parsing algorithm, the machine used and the language that the system is written in.
0000	This process is trivial for a native speaker of a language, however for a system the solution is more difficult.
0000	Fig 3.1 shows some possible segmentations for the word preached that a could posit.
0000	The decision he reached was that existing hardware was not sufficiently powerful to cope with the problem.
0000	Even if a was available which could cope with the load, the system has serious difficulties not least of which is coverage.
0000	At the same time have become much more powerful and common with much more information available in machine readable form.
0000	Whereas a few years ago a mainframe would have been essential to perform corpus processing, a desktop now suffices.
0000	The processing time was approximately 3 seconds per sentence using the same (a Sparc 4/75 with 48 MBytes of memory), and LISP system (KCL) as the ANLT investigation.
0000	Morphological processing is not quite so trivial for a as it is for a human.
0000	The main problem is that a dictionary is designed to be used by a human being, not a program.
0000	Having found the location in the dictionary the file was then searched to find the corresponding location.
0000	Such information was derived from the usable form of the Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary.
0000	However for processing of natural language ambiguity causes a large problem.
0000	It is more demanding for a to process and store strings than numbers.
0000	Numbers are also better suited to operations with the result that the process of searching the tree is made computationally simple.
0000	Using a SUN Sparc 4/75 with 48 MBytes of memory, the syntax analyser requires just 0.4 seconds of CPU time (3.6 seconds real time) to process 521 written words, for which there were on average 10 alternatives for each word.
0000	The increased importance of in daily life has led to an improvement in corpora.
0000	Once a million word corpus was considered to be a very large corpus, requiring a large amount of work to input the text to the followed by tagging and (possibly) annotation.
0000	‘The best design strategy is not to program a directly with the wealth of descriptive detail that constitutes a natural language but rather to give it the basic set of expectations and abilities that are needed to learn a language.’
0000	The rule-based approach proved to be too unwieldy and fragile to be of practical use given the current state of hardware and linguistic theories.
0000	Given the currently available linguistic theories and the only feasible way to build a system capable of dealing with unconstrained language is through corpus-based methods.
0000	In the short term this brute force approach appears to be the best method of incorporating linguistic knowledge into .
1980	The , keyboard and monitor were placed on a table outside the growth room and measurements were recorded regularly.
1993	Next time you get stopped it will come right up on the .
1993	His arms seem bolted to each arm rest and he is staring straight ahead at a television game.
1993	Grant sets the information for our voyage into the .
1993	Runs a check on the phone, the Coke dispenser, the , and the coffee machine.
1993	The navigation pings like a ready microwave.
1993	In contrast, other goods, like food, electricity, the use of a personal , are rivalrous in consumption.
1993	These arguments have been used to buttress a wide range of government investments, such as Concorde, nuclear reactors, BL vehicles, microelectronics and .
1993	However, both types of ‘Internal Market’ would generate a considerable amount of activity in billing, payment and verification which, even  in the age, would require vastly increased numbers of administrative and clerical staff.
0000	mayhem
0000	For underdeveloped countries the makes it possible to leapfrog certain stages of development by slashing paper bureaucracy, streamlining production and improving health care.
0000	But the explosion in the Third World is producing a lot of fallout.
0000	As one international expert put it: ‘don't clothe, don't cure, don't feed.
0000	Many governments are rushing into without carefully examining their needs.
0000	Take China: in 1984 it imported $300 million worth of components to make 120,000 .
0000	The Chinese currently spend 10 to 20 per cent over and above their capital outlay on servicing their new over three years compared with just three per cent in the US.
0000	How could you, for instance, put the smarmy, tax-dodging, moonlighting, whizz-kid in the same bag as the shoeshine boy trying to make out on the streets of a Third World city?
0000	This is a factory, more than 100 years old, which produces silicone for steel production and chips.
0000	Information is power and give both to ordinary people — or do they?
0000	Barbara Garson peels back the truth about Apple and their ilk.
0000	In 1976 Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak began selling Apple to ordinary humans — as opposed to businesses — for $666 a throw.
0000	‘We build a device that gives people the same power over information that large corporations and the Government have had over people,’ proclaimed one promotional video made by Apple Company.
0000	But the did not extend my power when I first worked on one in 1980.
0000	Oddly enough there were apparently no supervisors: just a young man in a glass booth who occasionally changed the printer ribbons on the .
0000	With they can always see what you are doing.
0000	We clerks might have found comfort if we had known that many floors above us a few of the bank's more senior personnel were smuggling personal into the building in a bid to free themselves.
0000	This phenomenon happened regularly in the early stages of personal .
0000	invasion
0000	Nevertheless by 1980 Apple was a $300 million company and personal had so successfully invaded the office that in 1981 IBM — which had originally scorned the little machine — introduced its first model called simply the IBM PC.
0000	They invited me down to Cincinnati, Ohio, to observe networked computing — or personal which are linked together so that information can be transferred from one to another.
0000	The women explained that they were ‘former’ in the sense that since had been installed, they used few of their old secretarial skills.
0000	Despite the liberating potential of the personal , information was flowing away from the person with the machine on their desk and up to the man — as it usually was — who owned it.
0000	With they can do all kinds of breakdowns: what I did last week, last month, last year.
0000	He complained that with he didn't get to pick his own bombing targets any more.
0000	But, as men used to fighting for power, both were well placed to explain how the does or does not redistribute that power.
0000	Both men wanted when they controlled the direction in which the information flowed.
0000	Admiral Moorer also liked .
0000	‘The problem is not the ,’ the Admiral emphasized.
0000	But I certainly know how it feels to be called to a distant office where your bosses have been tracking your movements through your ‘own’ .
0000	‘But,’ the Admiral repeated, ‘let us not blame .
0000	If it was merely a technical matter, personal would have meant increased autonomy for office workers just as Apple's founders predicted.
0000	Instead by 1984, when personal were abundant, the US Department of Labor estimated that nearly two-thirds of people who worked on Video Display Terminals in the US were monitored by their employers.
0000	It took a little time for employers to depersonalize personal .
0000	Today it has a pip in almost every pie from to cosmetics.
0000	Some of these are explored in the pages to come: which siphon even more power from the people who operate them; a dynamic but degraded city; a hippie alternative to capitalism which failed because it never really analysed the problem.
0000	California's Silicon Valley, home of high-tech, has more PhDs per square mile than anywhere else in the world.
0000	The pay was good — $35 an hour — and he was able to use materials and equipment (particularly time) from his office unnoticed.
0000	Chaos theory has used high-speed to show how nature could create fantastic and beautiful objects, like snowflakes or leaves, from relatively simple repeated operations.
0000	The other important but less visible change is that those who operate the robots and are part-time women workers.
0000	Both these countries have also been required to bring down their own protective barriers on a wide range of goods, from software to cigarettes.
0000	IBM, the US giant, is demanding royalties from South Korean and Taiwanese clonemakers.
1993	It's very different from facing a all day.’
1990	Opening at 2 pm, the Exhibition contained photographs of the stations, locomotives and rolling stock, copies of documents, some of the surviving artifacts from the line and, giving a modern touch, some drawn relief representations of the terrain through which the line ran.
1990	I pass on an interesting snippet that I read on a news net.
1990	They then pass the manuscripts to me, and I or my wife type the journal to a file.
1990	Red Star to Aberystwyth is not particularly healthy and the link was taken out in mid May.
1992	I noticed that this did not feature in their party political broadcast, wrongly entitled’ Made in Britain’and alleging that virtually nothing was made in Britain, when we not only have the successes mentioned by my hon. Friend the Member for Bury, South (Mr. Sumberg) in his constituency but export far more television sets than we import and make the best hi-fi in the world, and when one in ten personal sold in the world are made in this country — in Scotland.
1992	Does the Minister agree that he and his colleagues are responsible, first, for refusing to take action to clear up the fiasco on the issue of records being used, secondly for refusing to abolish the 20 per cent.
1992	The evidence problem has only just arisen.
1992	It would mean devastating expense in terms of new software and the reprogramming of .
1992	It would also mean massive reprogramming and possibly the expense of other programmes which would have to be introduced.
1992	In the absence of a member of the Scottish National party in the House, may I ask the Minister to write me a letter setting out, in terms of programming and related difficulties, the problems of collecting national insurance in the event of an independent Scottish Parliament?
1992	Perhaps we were selected by some mysterious which recorded the fact that we have each served a 17-year sentence — mine on the Back Benches, his in the Cabinet.
1992	The Inland Revenue has the necessary information on its , because it has everyone's postal code.
1992	Only this summer, I went to the Inland Revenue offices to check, and the postal codes are on the .
1992	Hundreds of thousands of pounds were spent on and software, only for them to be replaced by new software for the council tax.
1992	One of the major problems for local authorities is the software that is essential for the efficient billing and collecting of the tax.
1992	For the poll tax the Government gave councils 18 months to get their software in order, but the councils were unable to do so because they did not have the resources and the rules and complexities kept changing.
1992	Much of the information and secondary legislation which are vital to work out what will be in the programmes are not yet available.
1992	I am delighted to reassure the hon. Gentleman on the subject of software for local authorities.
1992	Only last week we had yet another meeting with them on the subject of software.
1992	Is the Minister saying that by Christmas every dot and comma of what local authorities need for their will be in place?
1992	The police was overloaded.
1992	I remember the marvellous Soviet history that concluded that the Soviet Union was responsible for the invention of television, and penicillin.
1992	Keep fit was taking place alongside book-keeping; languages and embroidery were next to jobsearch; cookery and pottery were adjoining studies; upholstery was alongside management training and business start-up.
1992	Having plucked up the courage, he or she will find perhaps in the next room a course in Spanish or studies.
1992	I welcomed the initiative in schools, which has brought so much innovation to our schools, from the primary age up.
1992	Last night I visited the Queen Mary and Westfield college in the Mile End road and I was told that it was soon to have a level of of almost one work station for every six students.
1992	One of the problems that the college told me about is that school children are leaving school with more literacy than the university teachers, so university teachers are having to run hard simply to keep up with the people they are teaching.
1992	One finds that a barn has been converted into a smart office where a chap is working hard on his word processor; he has a nice set-up with .
1992	GPs (Costs)
1992	and their use are not a normal subject for debate in the House.
1992	Taking major steps further to encourage medical practices to use and various software packages in dealing with medical records has brought, and I hope will continue to bring, benefits to the patient, and it is the patient who matters.
1992	The Government have set aside £44 million for the period 1989-92 to aid and to stimulate the installation of in doctors' practices and that must be welcomed by all of us.
1992	According to that document, non-fundholding practices such as the one to which I am referring were entitled to reimbursement of costs from April 1990.
1992	Therefore, on 13 February 1991, I tabled a written question:’ To ask the Secretary of State for Health how many general practitioners in previous years, in complying with his wishes to move to use , applied for a grant for the installation of a system that was above the figure of payment set out in the published cost reimbursement schedule.’
1992	I agree with my hon. Friend about the substantial benefits which can bring to a modern general practice.
1992	Registration and administrative and financial returns are all functions which can carry out in a modern general practice.
1992	In addition, and more important, can keep clinical records and, therefore, be of direct clinical value to the general practitioner.
1992	So are a valuable tool for a clinician in general practice, as well as being a valuable administrative tool to a partner in a practice.
1992	Our commitment is much wider than .
1992	have an important part to play in that wider programme.
1992	of general practices had access to .
1992	On 31 March 1987 there were 942 practices in the national health service which used a .
1992	tend to be concentrated in larger practices.
1992	of all general practitioners in the NHS had access to a .
1992	I have told my hon. Friend in private and I am happy to tell him in public that if the doctors concerned say that when they installed the they did not know that the list size criterion existed, I am happy to accept that as a statement of fact.
1992	However, I know that substantial numbers of doctors invested in , while complaining about the operation of that rule.
1992	The House will recall that a scientist, Mr. Melvyn Davies, was clubbed and slashed in Oxford while going to the help of his girl friend, who had herself been stabbed in the body and in the face.
1992	The Municipal Journal also quoted David Smith, the assistant registrar, as saying that’ excessive’or’irrelevant’information held on would fall foul of the Data Protection Act 1984.
1992	Will the Leader of the House arrange for an early statement from the Lord Chancellor on the workings of the Civil Evidence Act 1968 following the collapse yesterday in Liverpool and Gravesham of several hundred poll tax cases because the Government have so far refused to introduce a commencement order to allow evidence to be used in the magistrates court under that Act?
1992	My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry has written to the Leader of the Opposition drawing attention to the many ways in which it was a gross distortion and to the fact that, for example, one in 10 personal sold in the world — let alone in this country — is now made in Scotland and that no less than 85 per cent .
1992	They are already investigating the scope for putting some more services — management services, services and the collection of moneys — out to the private sector.
1992	Police National
1992	I welcome very much the opportunity to raise on the Adjournment the question of the working of the police national mark 2 and the need for effective safeguards, and I am delighted that this debate is starting at a relatively civilised hour.
1992	The police national mark 2 came on stream last autumn, and I understand that its direct access capacity is 190 million bytes, with a further 80,000 million bytes available as back-up on disk.
1992	This national will enable the police force to prevent crime and to be more effective in catching criminals.
1992	I regret that during my research for this debate I found that, in the field of , one of the least well-equipped police forces is that in my own area, Greater Manchester.
1992	I understand that the Greater Manchester force still does not have the necessary capacity to take full advantage of the police national mark 2.
1992	Cynics in Manchester claim that the last chief constable there had a direct link to God and, therefore, did not see the advantages of .
1992	Whatever the explanation, it is very sad that the Manchester force does not have the necessary capacity.
1992	As I have said, I welcome .
1992	The need for control of was well anticipated by the Lindop committee in the 1970s.
1992	I am worried about one of the Lindop committee's central recommendations — that, with the recording of any information on , fact should be separated from supposition or intelligent guesswork.
1992	The Home Office and its Ministers accepted that recommendation in respect of both the mark 1 and the mark 2 .
1992	However, it made no public statement concerning its decision that factual information and suspicions could be mixed in one .
1992	I hope that the Minister will confirm who is entitled to have access to the police national .
1992	Also, given the meetings of the Trevi group of Ministers and the development of Europol, perhaps the Minister can say how soon it will be possible for other EC police forces to gain access to Britain's police national and what restrictions will apply.
1992	In the past, there have been a number of stories about illegal use of police information.
1992	I should like the Minister to state clearly what checks are made to ensure that police information is not available to debt collectors, bailiffs, and other such persons.
1992	When 60 million items are included on a , and however carefully information may be segregated — I understand that the system used is known as NASCH, meaning name, age, sex, colour, and height — one is worried that it could be easy to confuse one John Smith with another John Smith.
1992	Either the investigating officer, using his own personal radio, or the officer accompanying him is then usually able to check those details almost immediately on the police national .
1992	I understand that any such information is presented by the control , which can then convey it to the police officer concerned.
1992	One or two police forces are experimenting with notebook , and perhaps it is intended that they will receive information from the control .
1992	What concerns me is the extent to which any warning signals included on the record are made available to the control officer and conveyed to the officer on the beat.
1992	I asked the Home Secretary to list the kinds of information currently held on the police national under the data class of warning signals.
1992	Their inclusion and removal is at the discretion of the force which enters the record on the police national .
1992	I understand, however, that in 1982, in the Lothian and Borders region, there was an entry on the for one in six of the population suggesting some kind of suspicion.
1992	That is a large number of people in those two areas to have been entered on the .
1992	of detected crime did the suspicions on the police national lead to convictions.
1992	One understands why information should be put on the in the first place.
1992	The temptation now, however, is to leave the information on the police national .
1992	Can the Minister tell us how information is taken off the police national ?
1992	How many entries on the police national are deleted each week?
1992	Furthermore, if information is to be sent abroad, will other police forces be told that we, unlike some of them, do not separate suspicion from factual information on our ?
1992	I understand that the only guidelines for the police national were produced by the Association of Chief Police Officers in 1987.
1992	Those guidelines were produced for the police national mark I. It is now almost five years since they were published.
1992	I am interested in whether the police national is linked with poll tax registers, electoral rolls and telephone numbers.
1992	I hope that the Minister will give us some more idea of the circumstances in which people's HIV status will be entered on the .
1992	The police national has a list of prostitutes, but I understand that it applies only to London.
1992	I make no complaint about such information being kept, but I am worried about it appearing on the police national when the original request had nothing to do with prostitution.
1992	Suppose someone's name is entered on the as having been convicted of prostitution in London and they report an assault in York or perhaps somewhere totally different.
1992	It would be perfectly reasonable for the police to check their address and details such as car ownership on the .
1992	Does the then disclose their conviction for prostitution?
1992	The Government should have made a statement on the way in which the police national operates; it should not have been necessary for me or the National Council for Civil Liberties to prise information from them.
1992	The police and the Government can be proud of the police national because it fights crime, but it is important that they offer assurance to the general public that it cannot be misused and does result in people being dealt with differently.
1992	Numerous questions have been asked in the House about the police national , but to my knowledge this is the first opportunity we have had in recent times to discuss wider issues.
1992	The police national has been in operation since 1974.
1992	Many police officers today, even in the higher ranks, cannot remember carrying out their police duties without the assistance of the , and it is now as much a part of police back-up as the police car and police radio.
1992	The police national is one of the most comprehensive record systems in the world and it gives police officers across the country rapid access to vital information round the clock, every day of the year.
1992	My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State formally unveiled the new police national on 17 November last year.
1992	Plans are being prepared for a new communications network which would enable rapid and cost-effective exchanges of information between the police national and forces, and between police forces themselves.
1992	A computerised national criminal record system on the police national will enable police forces to enter information directly on to the national collection.
1992	It should be clear from what I have said so far that the police national is exactly that — for use by the police in the United Kingdom.
1992	The use of the is subject to guidelines agreed and approved by the police service.
1992	How it is used, and by whom, is monitored by the police national organisation, and auditors in forces and in the police national organisation ensure that the security and operational procedures in forces are complied with.
1992	Is it intended that there should never be an interchange of information directly by but only by request between all European Community police forces?
1992	A full list of the security measures that forces should take in relation to the system is set out in the code of practice of the Association of Chief Police Officers.
1992	I turn now to the information that is held on the national about which the hon. Gentleman asked a number of questions.
1992	On a number of occasions, I have been glad to set out for the hon. Member in response to his questions in the House detailed information about the contents of the records and how many are held on the system at any one time.
1992	I should like to emphasise that the police national is subject to the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1984.
1992	In addition, the police service itself has issued a code of practice setting out how the principles underlying the Data Protection Act should be applied to the PNC and to other police systems.
1992	There are clear guidelines in the code on the manner in which information should be added to systems, how long it should be kept on the system and the security measures that should be taken to prevent unauthorised access.
1992	The ACPO code of practice for systems contains a foreword by the Data Protection Registrar welcoming the code.
1992	I believe that it will be updated as the new takes on additional information, but when and at exactly what point is a matter on which I shall have to get back to the hon. Gentleman because I do not know ACPO's plans.
1992	My fourth question concerns an extremely important matter — the practical nature of the tendering requirements, for instance, for facilities, estate surveying, legal and architectural services, medical advice and supplies.
0000	The revolution has had a profound effect on the mathematics associated with the analysis of programs.
0000	It has become clear that the majority of tasks required by scientific and commercial applications share many properties and these properties can be analysed mathematically.
0000	It is these techniques which have much in common with the analysis of programs.
0000	The aim of this research is to apply the methods developed for algorithms design and analysis to social networks.
0000	Not only should this make network analysis more efficient, but should increase potential for looking at larger data sets on smaller (and hence cheaper) .
0000	Firstly, it will disseminate these new procedures to the social science community by means of newsletters workshops and software.
0000	The field of artificial intelligence spans a range of topics which include expert systems, vision, speech recognition, natural language understanding and intelligent tutoring systems.
0000	The SDSS will model the evacuation process on a and allow emergency planners to determine the effects on the evacuation of different strategies in their emergency plan and the effects of incidents such as vehicle breakdowns and accidents.
0000	The main aim of a modelling language is to establish in terms a rational environment in which the complex methodology for policy design and model analysis can be implemented.
0000	All of these questions relate directly to the use of observed data with the latest software in commenting on and evaluating policy in the labour market.
0000	Many social scientists use in their research work and it is desirable that their computing should be as productive as possible.
0000	From amongst factors that might improve productivity, this research investigates whether the use of personal work stations, rather than shared mainframe , would be beneficial.
0000	Personal work stations are powerful used by one person at a time and linked to other machines for supporting services such as printing and data archiving.
0000	It is hoped that social scientists will not only be able to carry out with greater ease and rapidity those types of computation previously undertaken on mainframe but that they may also be able to take advantage of the machines’ ability to handle graphical information.
0000	The second way is to use systems of logical, arithmetic and statistical tests on the data once they are entered into a .
0000	The research project explores the substantive and technical issues of analysing hierarchical structures and in particular develops general purpose software.
0000	With the advent of enabling researchers to process large amounts of data, such research is likely to increase in the future.
0000	Scientific Information Retrieval (SIR) is a package designed for the analysis of large scale, complex, social surveys.
0000	Some of the methods developed for policy optimization have been installed by PROPE on the of HM Treasury to be used with research work on the Treasury model.
0000	The principal method of investigation is the presentation of carefully prepared texts, with the aid of a , which the reader encounters in a self-paced reading time setting.
0000	The records reading times and response latencies.
0000	The first is a controlled co-operative maze name.
0000	The investigation of international skills will depend upon analysing of the transcripts and simulation of certain features of the dialogues.
0000	To address these questions retention of several different kinds of knowledge including programming, a science, a work of literature and a language will be measured after varying retention periods extending up to more than 30 years.
0000	controlled displays will allow visual aspects of the picture to be systematically altered and considered.
0000	While the research is primarily concerned with comprehension in fluent readers it is likely to have implications for certain forms of reading backwardness and for the development of Natural Language Understanding programs for .
0000	The results will enable the development of a theory of the cognitive processes underlying meta-deduction, which will be implemented in a program.
0000	However, despite a considerable amount of research, there is as yet no theoretical model of the relevant processes that is explicit enough to be expressed in the form of a program.
0000	The purpose of this research is to develop a theoretical model of human short-term memory, expressed in the form of a program, and to undertake psychological experiments to test the predictions of the model.
0000	Experiments based on simulations will be used to do this.
0000	Being able to put a name to a subject is something that is beyond the capabilities of any current system.
0000	Knowing how these processes are organized will help us develop better systems for object naming, in addition to helping us understand how object naming develops in children, and how it can break down after brain damage.
0000	The experiments will be linked to attempts to develop models which simulate object naming processes in humans.
0000	Using both experimental studies and simulation, existing theories of face recognition and learning in general will be evaluated and developed.
0000	Dept of Science
0000	The former is relatively difficult to investigate in the normal research framework of brief laboratory experiments, and the latter has been overshadowed by the large volume of research on rational information processing, using analogies between and the mind.
0000	Social and cognitive characteristics of young users
0000	Any approach to these problems, particularly as they apply to very young children, must start from an understanding of the child's cognitive and social predispositions as a user.
0000	This research will also consider how far young children's social behaviour with peers encourages collaborative working at and, then, how far an individual's self perception might be influenced by such focused collaborations.
0000	There has already been extensive research on these, at Exeter and elsewhere, using techniques of control, recording and analysis.
0000	It will also construct simulations of skill to help solve the design problems.
0000	The experiments involve the use of a based system to display text to children and measure their reading time for different types of material.
0000	Individuals in many settings are now as a matter of routine involved in interactions with complex systems.
0000	Conversation between persons depends in large measure on presuppositions each participant has of the other's mental state and it is unlikely that the same presuppositions will influence conversation with a system.
0000	The aim of the research is to examine the way a user's beliefs and knowledge about a particular system influence the form and content of the interaction which takes place.
0000	Models of human temporary memory will be constructed using simulation techniques, and these models will be tested in a number of psychological experiments.
0000	A simulation of psychological process model of knowledge application
0000	to develop a program that will manipulate ‘knowledge’ in the same way as humans do in understanding language.
0000	The can give questions for the user to ask, and also draw inference from the answers.
0000	Still less does one know whether people tend to resist suggestions from a machine that go against their unaided habits, or whether they rapidly and thankfully accept that some things are better done by a .
0000	This research carries out laboratory measurements of the way members of the general public solve problems of this kind, to find out what happens without a ; it also looks at what happens when people are given a simple expert system to use, and what problems profit from, or are hindered by, the aid from the machine.
0000	systems, social systems and the human mind are similar in many important respects, some of which have already been exploited in the design of new information technology.
0000	However, one major difference has been that the mind of an individual develops with time and becomes better at the tasks it undertakes, whereas , with certain limited exceptions, perform at the same level of ability until replaced by a better machine or a better program.
0000	One current study is concerned with the impact of general practice systems on doctors, receptionists and patients.
0000	Also of interest is use during consultations, where patient notes are made available and up-dated using a desk-top terminal.
0000	The high cost and slow pace of program development remains the major obstacle to the widespread provision of educational software.
0000	programming in schools has until recently been largely limited to the use of ‘imperative’ languages such as BASIC.
0000	This approach holds the promise of making the a valuable resource in teaching throughout the curriculum.
0000	A specific focus of the research is to study how children work together in groups with the .
0000	applications in local authority planning departments
0000	As computing costs fall and equipment becomes easier to use, the application and influence of is likely to increase.
0000	Evidence suggests a significant growth has occurred in the use of for a variety of planning purposes.
0000	There has, however, been little research on the use of in planning practice.
0000	Extending and deepening the investigation of applications in UK local authority planning departments, considering the nature and distribution of use, the type and range of software used, areas of application, current problems and potential use; and
0000	Identifying and examining a cross-section of planning departments to pursue in-depth studies concerning the selection, introduction and operation of systems.
0000	A postal survey is being conducted to provide a comprehensive national profile of use in local authority planning departments.
0000	Ultimately, the research project therefore aims to evaluate the role and effectiveness of in planning and to provide some guidelines regarding the selection, introduction and operation of systems.
0000	These approaches have fallen well short of the perfect situation: the teaching medium (audio tapes, programs) did not ‘know’ the language they were teaching.
0000	However, the new discipline of Artificial Intelligence (AI) attempts to build systems with the knowledge of a particular area.
0000	The ESRC has given Mr Masoud Yazdani of Exeter University a grant to produce a set if AI tools which will be easy enough for teachers of modern languages to construct their own language teaching aids without needing a great deal of expertise in programming.
0000	Field experiments and interaction learning experiments will calibrate actual loss accuracy of temporal and spatial judgements, and of decision speed complex scenarios, for comparison against subjectively perceived changes.
0000	Institutions participating with the Department of Town Planning, University of Wales College of Cardiff in the WSWRRL include the South West Universities Regional Centre at the University of Bath, the University of Southampton and the Polytechnic of Wales.
0000	are notoriously bad at understanding language.
0000	Even the best programs are unable to understand a sentence containing a pronoun such as he or she.
0000	So it is not surprising that we cannot get to understand them.
0000	The principal method of investigation is to show people sentences one at a time on a screen and measure the time it takes to understand a sentence.
0000	The project aims to investigate the methodology of establishing interactive microprocessor and large models relating to a wide range of topics in environmental technology decision-making and to develop representative models.
0000	In the past few years, however, there has been progress in the systematic analysis of qualitative data using a variety of specially written programs.
0000	The time is ripe for a review of progress to date and an assessment of the likely future impact of on the craft of qualitative analysis.
0000	— to provide information, through appropriate media, to the whole community which will enhance opportunities for researchers and practitioner contributions to substantive research within the Programme and beyond;— to liaise and seek additional contributions in the formulation of the research/evaluation agenda and its execution from other bodies (DES, SED, TC, DTI, EEC, UNESCO, industry, training bodies, etc.);— to support UK participation in multi national conferences, programmes and projects organised by such agencies as the British Council and the EEC (ESPRIT, DELTA, AND COMETT);— to assist ESRC in its relations with SERC, DTI etc. in post- ALVEY, joint Research Council approaches to cognitive science and human interaction, and other joint governmental initiatives which require an IT and education contribution.
0000	The research topics are:— Groupwork with — Professor M Eraut (Sussex) and Professor C Hoyles (London Institute of Education);— Conceptual change in Science — Dr R Driver (Leeds), E Scanlon (OU) and others;— Tools for Exploratory Learning — London Mental Models Group.
0000	Expressive tools give children opportunity to express on the their own ideas about reality, so that they can learn through representing, exploring and reflecting on the consequences of their own models.
0000	There are also deeper questions: any tool, being a programme, has some kind of formalism built-in (LOGO for example includes procedures and lists).
0000	Considerable advances have been made in recent years in using models to understand the intellectual aspects of the human mind.
0000	The logical consistency and adequacy of the theory will then be tested by building simulation models of it.
0000	The project is primarily concerned with human psychology, but it will have implications towards the building of intelligent artificial systems and the improvement of man-machine interaction in the use of present day systems.
0000	The aim is to construct a set of modules and utilities that provides user-oriented software tools for laboratory applications of .
0000	The overall aim of the project is to make the contents of the Memoirs available to the public by using to prepare material for indexing and by reproduction.
0000	The feasibility project investigates and assesses procedures necessary for putting the manuscript accounts onto microcomputer and then mainframe .
0000	The project should establish the most effective methods of work: from preparing copies of the original documents, editing variant texts of parish Memoirs and production of selected subject indexes from texts input to the .
0000	The demonstration of such procedures should have wider applicability to other projects involving the transfer of information from manuscripts to .
0000	In the course of the project just under half the parish Memoirs deposited in the Royal Irish Academy are to be prepared for indexing by so that these will be available in a printed out form from the microcomputer.
0000	In technical terms, the index employs an uncontrolled, post-coordinate, simple, natural language in an online interactive mode.
0000	Anyone searching the resultant database by means of a terminal has almost instantaneous access to every item in the newspaper.
0000	The main part of the research involves entering on information on every house occupier in Glasgow at different dates between 1861 and 1901.
0000	Compiled annually, it is a voluminous source which can now be fully exploited for the first time using techniques.
0000	Most of the material so far has been keyed directly on to a housed at Guildhall Library.
0000	The main part of the research involves entering on information on every house occupier in Glasgow at different dates between 1861 and 1901.
0000	For more than a quarter of a century historians have been using to help analyse voting behaviour in English parliamentary elections.
0000	Data relating to a carefully constructed sample of voters from selected townships within the count will be linked together and subjected to intensive analysis using software tools especially developed by the research team.
0000	For this he needs a at his home with a large storage capacity, and the ESRC project has been able to provide this.
0000	The present project aims to speed up the process at both the collection and analysis stages, by the development of software which will operate with speed, simplicity and flexibility, while the use of a portable will make it possible to enter material direct on to disc.
0000	It also aims to create a database of the great variety of information contained in probate accounts.
0000	This database will be held in the mainframe at Cambridge University, where it will be available to economic and social historians.
0000	The project will involve translating surviving accounting data into a modern format and storage in a data base.
0000	In the first year of this project, it is planned to prepare a machine-readable version of all the detailed tax indentures and rolls for subsequent analysis using the data retrieval system known as Personal Data System on the University of Oxford ICL 2988 .
0000	In a second form of the data, the transcript is ‘enriched’ by incorporating extra background information on the place sampled, and is standardised by coding into a form suitable for a large scale quantitative analysis.
0000	In this form, the data are now available through the ESRC Data Archive in a highly portable format which allows them to be processed on any system anywhere in the world.
0000	The bibliography is being accessed to the Cambridge by staff at the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure.
0000	Investigations into family and household structure have centered around CAMTAB, a set of programs written to generate 85 standard tables detailing a range of population and household characteristics.
0000	Third, the project aims to develop methods of record linkage using facilities which will be more widely applicable in historical studies.
0000	The project is a pilot study to test the feasibility of analysis of data from the Dictionary of Business Biography, itself an ESRC-funded project which had collected the biographies of over a thousand leading English and Welsh businessmen active between 1860 and 1980.
0000	The programme used in the preparation of the data is to be SCSS, the interactive version of the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS).
0000	The purpose of this research is to develop a more adaptive algorithm which can be run on a micro- .
0000	In a probably divergent trend of , integrated versus computer-assisted production systems there may also arise a dual pattern of work skills and employment.
0000	Contextual influences in the adoption and implementation of integrated manufacturing
0000	A preliminary study of the introduction of flexible manufacturing systems as an example of integrated manufacturing
0000	The project examines the experience of a number of early users of flexible manufacturing systems to identify problems and possible responses in integrated manufacturing.
0000	The investigators explore issues raised by integration on a number of levels including the physical/technical system, hardware/software system, management information and control system, and the organisational system.
0000	Government support for the industries of the two Germanies and Hungary
0000	No industry in the world has developed without government support of some kind, although the mechanisms of this support vary considerably in market and non- market economies.
0000	The research examines and evaluates such support in three very different national contexts all of which can claim successes in the field.
0000	First, factors contributing to the relative success of European late-developers in the industry will be of interest to a UK industry which is falling behind.
0000	Sectoral studies of their respective industries illuminate larger European issues such as the re-birth of (West) Germany's dominance in Eastern European trade, and the special status of ‘inner German’(East- West) trade.
0000	This project attempts to answer these questions, concentrating on programmers and systems analysts and building on the base of information gathered during the past few years at Bristol.
0000	Advances in technology have improved the possibilities for the amount of information that can be stored, the speed with which it can be retrieved, the level of sophistication of information analysis and the simulation of future possibilities.
0000	This initial stage of the project is exploratory and comprises approximately thirty in-depth interviews with marketing managers, software houses, and manufacturers.
0000	The research strategy was first to draw stories arising from the use of at the workplace, as are a common source of organizational narratives, and then move to other stories.
0000	Subsequently, 213 organizational narratives were extracted from the transcripts, classified and analysed with the help of a specially devised programme.
0000	Ten practices are being examined in this study, and they collectively involve practices with a variety of software programmes on their systems as well as practices still utilising traditional manual procedures of control.
0000	The research will involve the creation of a database of segmental information for 100 of the largest publicly quoted companies.
0000	It will be based on literature searches, previous data collected at Templeton College, and other methods.
0000	Using a range of programmes, this was matched against 831 Census Wards in the West Midlands.
0000	The aim of this project is to design an experimental, micro based, management information system suited to the needs of the Chairman of a small but expanding company.
0000	Research in this area has tended to focus either on the technical approach of the systems analyst/designer or the effect of on clerical and managerial work, which become ‘de-skilled’.
0000	The aim of the study is to help a large civil engineering consultancy firm determine their longer term strategy for training their technicians in the use of as an aid to design.
0000	The research is exploratory and a causal model is adopted on the assumption that the introduction of as an aid to design would change the job content of the technician.
0000	It is argued that the contribution that the technicians make to the industry will be severely limited due to their lack of training in aided design.
0000	The study reviews the extent to which are used in the industry and the institutional responses to the need for changes in technician training.
0000	Where systems have been investigated they have been large mainframe systems.
0000	The method of investigation will be by interviews with relevant personnel within the company and with companies.
0000	In addition, the pedestrian data set, programs, and bibliography are available on four IBM-PC 360K format floppy disks at 20 the set, plus 1 postage and packing in the UK.
0000	East Anglia University Additional Sponsors: Technology and Training Ltd;
0000	The emergence of the Data Protection Act 1984 gave rise to controversy and one complaint has been the burden that it may cause for small business users.
0000	Questions to be answered include the level of awareness of the small business of the Act and its requirements, the likely response of small businesses, the impact of the Act on current use and procedures, and finally the cost and training requirements for compliance.
0000	The project requires a flexible approach, demanding not only an analysis of the law but an economic and business approach to the nature of the small business and an understanding of small business systems.
0000	School of Studies and Accountancy
0000	East Anglia University Additional Sponsors: Sinergy Limited;
0000	The researcher has constructed models which predict tax and benefit entitlement under the present system, and after any possible reforms.
0000	Most West European governments now attempt to assist and promote technical innovation, particularly in the field of microelectronics and , as for example in the Alvey Programme.
0000	software has been developed for the estimation of large systems of such equations subject to cross-equation restrictions and also subject to changes of regime, so that the model can be permitted to shift in the face of institutional changes (such as the switch to floating exchange rates) while certain underlying behavioural parameters, such as in the desired money velocity function, remain constant.
0000	In studying the political economy of policy co-ordination, the plan is to compare and contrast the results of non-cooperative policy formation using programmes for policy design,(with the aid of macroeconomic models where feasible).
0000	packages for the implementation of these procedures are widely available, and a body of theoretical results about the properties of the procedures also exists.
0000	In order to simplify access to the data, a set of programs enables prospective users of the data not only to obtain data, but to tailor their excerpts from the database precisely to their own requirements.
0000	Price series will be made available to other historians through the data archive at Essex and also through publication, although the raw inventory data will only be available when the inventory package is made machine-independent.
0000	The methodology for probate inventories has been further developed so that it can now handle large numbers of complete inventories.
0000	The relibility of test statistics calculated using various techniques will be examined using simulation experiments.
0000	The project follows up a previous ESRC supported research programme into the roles of expectations and feedbacks in empirical economics, which developed some of the new tools and software to be used in the present research.
0000	It will be smaller than most existing models, which will allow the model to be theoretically consistent, and which will also facilitate the use of recent intensive techniques in the examination of policy issues.
0000	The project bases its method primarily on interviews with policymakers at both EC and local level, case studies of corporate restructuring in four industrial sectors (pharmaceuticals, services, telecommunication equipment and electrical generation equipment) and case studies of selected LFRs in Britain, Spain, Italy, Greece and Germany.
0000	The industries studies range across a broad spectrum of sectors, and include inter alia , aircraft, scientific and medical instruments, and pharmaceuticals.
0000	The Cray at Rutherford Laboratory is being used to investigate a number of topics for which the simulation of large scale econometric models is appropriate.
0000	This theory has been much refined, and has also been empirically tested using simulations.
0000	The programmes which generate the simulations and diagnose their effects are written in such a way that almost any conceivable tax/benefit reform can be analysed.
0000	The main products of the research will comprise new models of the interactions between lags and expectations, empirical studies of the success of such models relative to already established results, new econometrics tools for evaluating models, and working programmes with their documentation to enable other researchers to test the findings and try out related methods.
0000	The type of information to be acquired about each technology consists of specifications of the technology (eg the speed or payload of a commercial aircraft, the memory size of a ) and of information about the economic environment in which the technology has been adopted.
0000	This system takes advantage of interrelated new technologies in areas such as Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI), , digital switching, fibre optics, and opto-electronics in order to integrate within one system the delivery of voice, data, image, and text services.
0000	The outcome of this project will be a simulation routine usable on standard microcomputers designed to assess the response of consumers' expenditure and VAT revenue to changes in VAT rates.
0000	The models are integrated into a common operating framework at the University of Warwick Unit.
0000	The methods necessary for the above problems invariably require computational techniques implemented on powerful .
0000	Nevertheless, at least some of the problems can be solved on personal or desk-top workstations.
0000	based index to the Irish Ordinance Survey memoirs completion project
0000	Copies of the manuscripts are made for editorial work; the texts are prepared and dictated; these are input to micro and then mainframe .
0000	However, a pilot study has shown that if the available data is collected and sorted by , enough survives to enable something of the overall pattern to emerge, especially through comparison with the much more plentiful English data.
0000	As part of the work on this Initiative, the employers and employees' data will be Linked on the Oxford University , and used to investigate the impact of policies such as the balance of external recruitment and internal promotion, introduction of new technology, use of part-time, temporary or casual workers, and efforts to involve employees in the organisation.
0000	The second repeated the evaluation of telephone interviewing against face-to-face interviewing and was extended to include an assessment of assisted telephone interviewing (CATI).
0000	All available statistics relating to population, employment, family household structure, and electoral patterns will be gathered for a sample series of municipalities and will then be analysed by .
0000	These include such innovations as new technology in the newspaper industry, robots, the diffusion of CAD/CAM systems, high-speed trains, home and business , and video cassettes.
0000	For the computational linguist, such studies are important in shaping how artificial () understanding might develop.
0000	In this project we propose to develop a model to explore the semantics and pragmatics of modal and hypothetical questions and answers.
0000	Artificial languages, such as those devised for , have no such category.
0000	This project will develop ways of automatically adding information about word meaning to readable texts.
0000	A may be programmed
0000	Second, new methods for analysing and displaying co-word data will be explored.
0000	To investigate further the link between planning and language a model will be implemented.
0000	The current project is concerned to examine this far-from-easy task of assigning internal structure to words and, in particular, to investigate the extent to which it is possible to build a system which will model the procedures which the linguist follows in arriving at a description of the word structure of a language.
0000	A separate project directed at the University of Essex by Alison Scott has examined the service and retail industries.
0000	have long promised, or threatened, to replace human labour in a variety of settings.
0000	The growth of based ‘expert systems’ seems to promise a replacement for human expertise.
0000	The first phase of the research compares the way that expertise is learned in the normal way, with the way that a ‘knowledge engineer’ elicits an expert's knowledge and transfers it to a programme.
0000	The firms and markets studied would come from the following industries: personal , microelectronics, software, and broadcasting services.
0000	This project involves establishing files containing Sri Lankan data from censuses and vital registration for the period 1926-54 and then (since data for the earlier period have already been computerized) analyzing the material for the entire period 1900-1954.
0000	analysis of careers of new scientific concepts in the
0000	A secondary, methodological, objective of the research is thus to explore ways of developing and enhancing traditional content analysis techniques through the use of text-databases and programmes for the analysis of textual data.
0000	Department of Studies Department of Applied Social Studies
0000	Doctors and the development of hospital systems: a case study
0000	Also, the research is concerned with the study of the processes by which policies and decisions relevant to the particular system under study have been developed and implemented.
0000	In the course of the creation of the data file by the survey organisation — a very complex process — a error led to the omission of a significant amount of information.
0000	There has recently been a sharp rise of interest in artificial intelligence — very broadly the attempt to write programs to work at a human level of intelligence and performance in such tasks as identifying and recognising objects in cluttered environments, understanding ordinary human languages such as English, or diagnosing what is wrong in cases of human illness or machine failure.
0000	This part of the project will focus on services and retailing, and will consist of interviews with key informants in relevant companies in East Anglia, as well as documentary analysis of national level data.
0000	This research aims to investigate the implications of aided design technology for the nature of design work and the management of the design activity.
0000	In addition the questions of whether technology leads to a division between technician and professional level engineers, and a greater integration of design with other organisational activities, is explored.
0000	Department of Science
0000	It involves based work on social and spatial change at the national, regional and local authority levels; locality research on housing markets and labour markets; household research on the unemployed, the elderly and newly married couples.
0000	Ethnograpic representation of indigenous knowledge using a
0000	This research specifically aims to develop models of knowledge pertaining to a complex group activity — the arranging of marriages in Lahore, Pakistan — based on information collected during three months field work.
0000	The research directly contributes to understanding the role of urban kinship and marriage decisions in urban Punjab, and to general fieldwork and analytic methods in anthropology, the accurate modelling of the relationship between human knowledge and the application of that knowledge in specific situations is important for the development of advanced applications.
0000	Ethnomusicological analysis with : a machine-learning solution
0000	Previous research with North Indian master drummers has suggested that may be able to throw some light on these processes.
0000	Machine-learning and other advanced artificial intelligence techniques will be applied in interactive situations where musicians and will enter into direct dialogue.
0000	The use of makes possible the analysis of relatively of naturally occurring conversation.
0000	Marriage strategy in North Puglia, 1730-1990: a aided study
0000	It also seeks to refine the ways in which techniques can be used to handle complex social processes (especially group and spacial dynamics) through time.
0000	education activities and pupils' attitudes to
0000	It has been observed that pupils' attitudes to are significantly influenced by use of a home-computer and experience of assisted learning (CAL) at school.
0000	It is supposed that pupils' attitudes should also be affected by lesson activities and the classroom environment they experience during a course of education.
0000	A checklist completed by teachers will give a measure of the use of over two hundred activities in education lessons.
0000	Pupils' attitudes to will be assessed by a questionnaire developed by the researcher; perception of the classroom environment will be assessed by means of ten scales used in other classroom research studies.
0000	The project is concerned with 3 to 10 year old children, and how they learn to use .
0000	The investigator is not at this point investigating how the child learns to program the although he shall be doing so at a later date.
0000	This research is mainly concerned with how the child uses the when performing tasks that are rather like simple games.
0000	These tasks involve the use of different kinds of devices to control a display on the monitor.
0000	The gap between arithmetical and algebraic thinking: effects
0000	This does not present the same barrier to pupils use of algebraic ideas within programming environments.
0000	providing information about the role of the software in mediating and supporting the activities.
0000	To make a contribution to educational policy and practice by generating practical suggestions for how may be used effectively to stimulate exploratory and reasoned argument in the classroom, with particular reference to the curriculum goals of English and spoken language development across a range of curriculum areas.
0000	A well documented feature of use in UK primary schools is their frequent use for collaborative activities.
0000	the extent to which such collaborative conversations at the actually take place,
0000	It has come to some tentative conclusions about the relationship between the quality of argument and software.
0000	One of the more interesting aspects of the use of in education is their potential for involving children in problem-solving activities.
0000	The programming language Logo, in particular, has been presented as an ideal medium for allowing children to develop their thinking skills.
0000	However, it is becoming evident that the development of problem-solving strategies does not happen automatically even when the motivational effects of the are present.
0000	It is the purpose of this research to investigate how changing the feedback provided by the affects the complex learning process.
0000	Considerable resources have been spent on equipping schools with hardware and software.
0000	At the same time, research in a range of contexts and countries has indicated that even the very best software cannot stand by itself.
0000	there exists a considerable need on the part of mathematics teachers to learn about and apply the in their work, and
0000	that in particular roles, the can have a positively influential effect on the education and training of mathematics teachers.
0000	This research is aimed at investigating the educational potential for the mathematics classroom of a small number of powerful applications.
0000	The aims of this proposal are to develop, implement and evaluate a programme of in-service teacher-education concerned with the use of some content-free applications in mathematics.
0000	The evaluation will consist of:— baseline criteria for the effectiveness of a based course — a description of critical aspects of course implementation — an analysis of the reciprocal interactions between teachers' views of mathematics, mathematics teaching and and their progress on the course.
0000	In particular, the use by firms of based packages (including interactive video) as well as written text, audio and tape-slide structured programmes, have allowed access by the employees to a wide range of open-learning programmes.
0000	Full advantage will be taken of recent developments in networking and technology and attention given to issues of data base management and methodological problems of spatial analysis.
0000	In Cardiff a team from the Department of Town Planning at the University of Wales Institute of Science and Technology under the direction of Professors Michael Batty and Neil Wrigley will work together with colleagues from the statistics group at the University of Bath and the South West Universities Centre to develop demonstration projects for Wales and South West England.
0000	ii) The development of a human interface which will allow users to find out about sources of data and information.
0000	iv) A system that will, by assisting in automating map scale change, help solve one of the main problems in cartography.
0000	Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are software systems for storing and displaying geographical data.
0000	Particular attention is paid to the methodological problems of identifying and linking long distance migrants over time in origin and destination areas and the project appraises the use of linkage techniques in historical research.
0000	Recent advances in remote sensing and based processing of digital imagery may overcome such problems.
0000	The results obtained from the analysis will be checked by field investigation.
0000	Data have been compiled on about the career and demographic backgrounds of all those who have held positions of leadership in the hierarchies of the Chinese communist Party, the state administration, and the People's Liberation Army at provincial and regional levels.
0000	The information (about approximately 5,000 individuals) has been stored in one file which has been developed for ease of access.
0000	The British study uses an innovative survey research methodology based upon CATI (Assisted Telephone Interviewing).
0000	As the chairman of British Telecom declared in 1982, the traditional role of telecommunications in voice communication is being rapidly superseded by ‘information exchange’ made possible by the merger of and communications systems.
0000	an evaluation of the application of ‘business-oriented’ software in social research.
1993	The trio, who were linked on security force to 32 murders, were killed as they apparently tried to murder a retired UDR man on a remote Co Tyrone road.
1993	‘There will no doubt be further changes in composing due to the rapid changes in technology.
1993	From where I sat above the wizardry, it looked as though all three girls touched simultaneously.
1993	Hold-ups with sub-contractors and problems in developing the ship's highly-sophisticated nerve-centre have been blamed.
1993	The court heard that the two, armed and masked, had held up a courier as he was about to deposit a bag containing data sheets into a TSB night safe on the Belmont Road.
1993	But the company which was to have supplied the software and hardware has still not been disclosed by the Dundonald-based board.
1993	Mr Doherty was suspended and court injunctions taken to freeze both his assets and those of the company.
1993	Bates back at Roland Garros for the first time in three years opens his challenge against Ctislav Dosedel of the Czech Republic, a player ranked nine places lower on the world at 111.
1993	war
1993	VIRGIN tycoon Richard Branson is moving into and could be set for a head-on clash with Amstrad chief Alan Sugar.
1993	Branson will unveil his own range of personal in September at the Business Show.
1993	SCHOOLCHILDREN in the North West are being offered the chance to create their own art on during novel ‘camps’ this summer in the Magee and Coleraine campuses of the University of Ulster.
1993	The week-long camps are sponsored by Digital Equipment Company, and are open to students aged from 14 to 17 years to give them practical experience of the applications they will come across when they take up their careers.
1993	Using equipment supplied by Digital, the students will design their own ‘pop art’ by scanning in images and pictures which can be manipulated on screen.
1993	Mrs Vince and her analyst husband, from Grimsby, Humberside, have visited their babies in the neonatal unit.
1993	Education chiefs sue over system
1993	ULSTER education chiefs are taking a giant hi-tech firm to court to seek more than £1m compensation over an alleged bungle.
1993	leading way through advice maze
1993	It launched two programmes aimed at giving people on-the-spot help through the maze of social security benefits and advice on managing debts.
1993	poet is resourceful
1993	A MAN who has been blind since birth has written a book of poems with the aid of a talking .
1993	Richard Daniels (42), has called his 23 poem collection of verse, If Milton Could Do It — So Can I. He wrote the book on a at a community resource centre in Kingsteignton, Devon, where it will be launched tomorrow.
1993	A CONTROVERSIAL £270 game condemned as filthy, violent and evil has been given a mild 15 rating by British film censors.
1993	SEGA's Night Trap is the first game to be rated in the same way as a video by the British Board of Film Classification.
1993	The game uses SEGA's Mega-CD system which combines startlingly realistic images of living actors and actresses with graphics.
1993	BBFC director James Ferman last night predicted future live-action games would be likely to carry U, PG, 15 or 18 ratings — just like films or videos.
1993	Mr Ferman said previous games have not been covered by the 1984 Video Recordings Act, which lays down criteria for rating videos.
1993	But Night Trap could not be exempted because it depicted violent actions involving realistic images of human beings rather than straightforward graphics.
1993	In one corner, a blue screen blips out the latest scores for anyone with good enough eyesight to read the small print.
1993	Keith Campbell, from north Belfast, has picked up a top award from firm Digital after coming first in the BTEC National Diploma in a studies course at Belfast Institute School of Informatics.
1993	The up to date text will be made available in accessible form.
1993	No value shall be attributable to any intangible asset including but not limited to, goodwill, intellectual property rights, research and development expenditure, third party rights, customer contracts, software and hardware, assets located in the business which is to be closed, any assets with an original cost of less than £500, books and records but full provision shall be made for all liabilities in respect thereof.
1993	If the vendors conclude that a purchase and sale transaction is not to be consummated with you, or if you decide to withdraw your interest, you will upon request immediately return to KPMG Peat Marwick all copies of the Information Memorandum and all Copy Information in your possession or in the possession of your Representatives, and you will destroy all copies of any software analysis, compilations, studies or other documents or records prepared by you or your Representatives for your internal use which are based in whole or in part on the Information without retaining any copies or notes thereof or extracts therefrom.
0000	She met students at work in the Department of Mechanical, Manufacturing and Software Engineering, and staff and post-graduate students from Integrated Manufacturing demonstrated their research work on the use of robots in a manufacturing environment.
0000	In the library she saw an exhibition dedicated to the war poets and plans for the library extension; she met students and researchers using some of the library's on-line and interactive systems.
0000	The Department of Biological Sciences gave an energetic demonstration of aerobic measurement, involving a treadmill and monitoring equipment — a project they hope to develop commercially to measure fitness levels in sportsmen and women and in people working in fields where physical stamina is of particular importance.
0000	The Departments of Mathematics, Biological Sciences, Studies and Electrical Engineering all showed exhibits of their work including Dr Crerar's ‘Ball, Box, Star’ microcomputer application for the rehabilitation of stroke victims and Dr Mincher's DNA research work that it is hoped will play a key role in the treatment of such diseases as cancer, herpes and AIDS related diseases.
0000	A service of dedication was held at Morningside Church, Napier's newly acquired campus, which was led by Rev Alan Brown the chaplain, with readings by Mr Bob Rankin (Department of Studies), the Principal, Professor William A Turmeau and Mr Stephen Crawford (Student's Association Sabbatical Officer).
1975	Society for and Law Limited
1975	The Annual General Meeting of the Society for and Law Limited was held at the Council Chamber of The Law Society on Tuesday, 4th March 1915.
1975	He also gave advance information about an evening meeting on contracts on Friday, 16th May, and a one-day conference with an associated exhibition on and conveyancing on 24th October 1975, both events to take place in London.
1975	Sir Leslie Scarman spoke of the new computer-usable Statutes in Force and of the Statute Law Committee's subcommittee on the impact of technology on statutory material, and looked forward to the day when lawyers will be able to search the statutes in computer-usable form, as well as relying on their traditional book material.
1975	This was followed by an interesting talk by Mr N. J. Bellord on his experience with a in a solicitor's office, and a number of valuable hints as to how to get the best out of the system and avoid technological pitfalls.
0000	Responsibility for the running of the library loans system, including the maintenance of loan records, and the issuing of loans using paper & systems.
0000	Assistance will also be provided on the transfer of existing loan records from paper slips to the system.
0000	Hardware
0000	I regularly receive visits from overseas librarians, from consultants, and other people with whom an exchange of business cards is normal practice.
0000	I'd like to book one or other of the Conference Rooms for the following dates, for meetings of the Management Group.
0000	Capital Equipment —
0000	This is to certify that…has successfully completed an advanced training course in the following subjects: Information Management, Plant Information Systems, Database Design and Construction, Word Processing, and Personal Operating Systems; and that he has demonstrated his abilities in these subjects by constructing a database of the Economically Useful Plants of India.
0000	Staff changes and an increased workload led to the identification of the need for a Support Officer to provide user support, fault diagnosis, preventative maintenance, and supplier liaison services.
0000	Computing is organised by the Computing Sub-Group of Management, chaired by Dr C.D. Will, with input from the Users Group, chaired by Dr D.F.
0000	She would be employed specifically to enter journal subscription data into our system — the job which Paul Ainsworth failed to complete last year due to absences.
0000	Transfer of consumables to be arranged between CW and Bill Nicholson.
0000	Printers in Room to be made serviceable wherever possible.
0000	Modems in Room had been found to be incompatible with our telephone system and should be disposed of.
0000	CW to investigate possibility of moving line-printer out of Room.
0000	Projection Panel
0000	Upgrading the facilities would primarily involve an extension to the network to service three additional visitors per year, at a cost of 4500 Ecu, and the provision of an additional research microscope if the proposed visitor were to be considering diatom research, at a cost of 45000 Ecu.
0000	The situation with Stephen Marshall is that he is now working his notice, and is no longer Support Officer.
0000	5.1.3 ‘The organisation operates a networked system, providing access to library and other databases throughout RBGE.’
0000	The one on Display screen equipment work obliges us to carry out an assessment of each workstation (, software suitability, accessories, peripherals, and the immediate working environment, including furniture), to ensure that all new workstations meet the criteria, and to bring existing stations up to the required standard.
0000	Responsibility for checking in and recording journals and other serials, as they arrive, using a) system b) manual Kardex system as appropriate.
0000	The management of information in taxonomic institutions; data collection, storage, processing and retrieval, using libraries and .
0000	The scientific staff have six personal (which are not networked), and telephone and postal links to other institutions.
0000	Power supply work — operations.
0000	Please ensure that in future, if any planned power supply work is to be carried out affecting the supply to the room, I am informed well in advance, so that I can make arrangements to safeguard the file-servers and inform users.
0000	Costed proposals for enhancing and extending the network are expected by end September.
0000	CW spoke to his paper on the desirability and practicality of connecting our system to external .
0000	It is also possible that some research is directed towards developing a technique, methodology, program, or piece of equipment which has wide applicability, but whose initial testing was carried out within some field of Scottish geology.
0000	The pressures of a full-time job, and the lack of availability of research facilities such as libraries, , personal contacts with academics, as described above, inevitably result in some degree of non-publication of thesis research.
1985	Electrical Work — Student Room
1985	I attach a copy of a note from Mr G Anderson concerning the wiring of the three Amstrad machines in the Student Room.
1985	Management Group
1985	It was pointed out that the official procedure for collating Garden equipment bids remained within the remit of cost centre managers, who are asked to submit supplementary estimates when making their own Departmental submissions.
1985	The Users Group should not see the collation of hardware requests from end users as their primary function.
1985	GL outlined the situation regarding the appointments of a Support Officer and of a scientific computing post.
1985	Management Group
1985	B. Display Panel.
1985	We recommend that this machine be kept in the Room, under the supervision of C Will, and issued only to trained and authorised staff.
1985	Consultative Group
1985	budget — priorities
1985	Report on Users Group meeting with EUCS
1985	Managemnet Group
1985	Management Group
1985	Support Officer.
1985	GL suggested that one of his duties might be to provide secreterial support to Users Group.
1985	There is a suspicion that some RBG equipment is being used for playing games within the working hours of some staff.
1985	Agreed that these be placed in Student Room, but would be available for others when not in use by students.
1985	Job Description — Support Officer (CSO)(AO)
1985	RBGE, including its specialist gardens, now runs more than 100 , with a large proportion being linked as a three-segment local area network (LAN).
1985	Provide secreterial support to the Users Group.
1985	Co-ordinate training CSO/NG
1985	The fault log will be moved into the Library office.
1985	The initial contract for support with the University Computing Service finished at the end of April.
1985	Requests for consumables (printer ribbons, disks, paper etc.), software, and small hardware items (T-switches etc.) should be written in to the Consumables Book in my office.
1985	The Garden had no communication links, so that the Library could not access on-line bibliographic databases to carry out literature searches for staff, and there was no possibility of using for data exchange between institutions.
1985	Communication links have been established on the Administration and Library LANs for the exchange of data with financial institutions and bibliographic databases, and discussions are underway on the use of the JANET system for the exchange of scientific data between academic institutions.
1985	Many of the developments in taxonomy in the recent past have involved the use of , but staff in RBG have been limited by the inadequate facilities previously available, which have made it extremely difficult for them to become involved in work in this field.
1985	Strategic and policy decisions are taken by the Consultative Group, which has a wider membership of specialist staff advising Management on computing issues, and the views of users are collated by a Users’ Group, which contains representatives from all Garden departments at all sites.
1985	Support.
1985	In order to help rationalise support activities, which have been rather overloaded recently, staff are asked to observe the following procedures.
1985	stationery (paper, labels) has been moved into the main Stationery Store, and is now being dealt with by Support Services.
1985	Faults and problems should be written in to the Fault Log kept by the Support Officer, Mr Stephen Marshall.
1985	Please do not telephone the Support Officer or myself for assistance or consumables.
1985	Consumables
1985	Responsibility for the stocking and issue of disks, printer ribbons and laser printer toner cartridges will be transferred to Stationery with effect from…
1985	stationery stocks (paper, labels etc.) have already been transferred.
1985	Consultative Group.
1985	It was agreed that it would be reasonable to expect the new person to have some contribution to make towards solving our current problems.
1985	Model: DCS 386-33
1985	Serial No.: DCS 10667
1985	Model: IBM PS/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346775
1985	Model: Samsung SD620
1985	Serial No.: SCADUKM478275
1985	Model: Samsung SD620
1985	Serial No.: 9CADUKM470257
1985	Model: Samsung SD620
1985	Serial No.: 9CADUKM500107
1985	Model: IBM PS/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346713
1985	Model: IBM PS/2 30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346581
1985	Model: IBM PS/2-30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500FY338
1985	Model: IBM PS/2-30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346669
1985	Model: PS/2-30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346736
1985	Model: DCS 386-33
1985	Serial No.: DCS 20535
1985	Model: DCS 286-12
1985	Serial No.: DCS 10637
1985	Model: DCS 286-12
1985	Serial No.: DCS10637-HSO510490
1985	Model: Olivetti PCS 286
1985	Serial No.: 0077580
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552361497
1985	Model: Phoenix 486
1985	Serial No.: SC4D4E095H
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC185
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346642
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346599
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.: E5X5R5BTC-on keyboar
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346605
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552361620
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: Phoenix
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346655
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346526
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346686
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30-286
1985	Serial No.: GS5500FFT92
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC227
1985	Model: DCS 486 DX
1985	Serial No.: 00S20883
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346639
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346563
1985	Model: Amstrad
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: IBM PS2/70
1985	Serial No.: DT551514625
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500KT741
1985	Model: SYDEC (UK)
1985	Serial No.: SC4D4E133[H]
1985	Model: DCS ST15
1985	Serial No.: 10647-MSO 609841
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500KT866
1985	Model: DCS 486 DX
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: IBM PS2/70
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: Comm C386SXLT
1985	Serial No.: 11501270
1985	Model: Apricot XJ9870
1985	Serial No.: 796483
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET500MC326
1985	Model: IBM 8503002
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC217
1985	Model: IBM 8503
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MB926
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500LN010
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346601
1985	Model: IBM PS2/70
1985	Serial No.: FF5500RFBX9
1985	Model: IBM PS2/70
1985	Serial No.: 6450718-55MGCL2
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346607
1985	Model: ‘10 Notebook Comp
1985	Serial No.: N011020043
1985	Model: IBM PS1
1985	Serial No.: GR55-00XLA65
1985	Model: DCS 386
1985	Serial No.: DCS 10665
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346691
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC224
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500HX845
1985	Model: DCS
1985	Serial No.: DCS10638
1985	Model: DCS 486 DX
1985	Serial No.: DCS 20964
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC248
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346587
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MB968
1985	Model: Macintosh IICi
1985	Serial No.: CK141433778
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346595
1985	Model: DCS
1985	Serial No.: DCS20608
1985	Model: DCS
1985	Serial No.: DCS20515
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346677
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500KT716
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346657
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500KT730
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346550
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500MC207
1985	5.04.93 Page 25
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: ET5500KT727
1985	Model: Wyse 486/25
1985	Serial No.: 1JRM1305618
1985	Location: Room
1985	Model: Wyse
1985	Serial No.:
1985	5.04.93 Page 26
1985	Location: Room
1985	Model: Wyse
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Location: Room
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	5.04.93 Page 27
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346761
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	5.04.93 Page 28
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346636
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.: BP552346712
1985	Model: IBM PS2/30
1985	Serial No.:
1985	5.04.93 Page 29
1985	Model: Ambra Hurdla
1985	Serial No.:
1985	Model: DCS 386-33
1985	Serial No.: DCS 20844
1985	Model:
1985	Serial No.:
1985	GL & DM still in discussion on job description for Support Officer.
1985	Problem with tape backup system will necessitate switching two Model 30s between Finance and Room.
1985	Staff in these Departments considering additional are at liberty to submit suggestions through line management in the usual way.
1985	Group agreed that the over-riding priority on the allocation of equipment is to serve the needs of RBGE staff working on approved activities, but that where affordable, and assuming this will not conflict with that priority, Associates should be provided with appropriate computing facilities.
1985	CW to draft a note for Vitis, pending development of specific communication media for users.
1985	A job description for a Support Officer is to be agreed between GL & DM.
1985	Following the recent Whitley Council meeting, DC agreed to chair an open meeting of the Users Group in the near future.
1985	The Group did not support the informal suggestions put forward by Staff Side Whitley that a) there should be a ‘Whitley’ representative on the Group — it felt that this function could be adequately provided by more frequent, regular and open meetings of the Users Group.
1985	Mr Scott's second suggestion, b), that the Garden should create and staff a new post of Manager, was felt to be unnecessary at present, since the Support Officer is the person who will be carrying out most of the tasks outlined by Mr Scott.
1985	CA is taking part in discussions with Edinburgh University regarding finance for MSc facilities.
1985	SUPPORT OFFICER (AO)
1985	There is a vacancy in the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh for a Support Officer (CSO) at Administrative Officer (AO) Grade (Current Salary scale…)
1985	Other duties will include setting up new hardware, installing new software, supervising equipment re-location, and assistance to Stationery on the supply and monitoring of consumables.
1985	Users Group
1985	I agree with you that the level of provision for students is inadequate.
1985	I have argued consistently that the level of provision for all groups working here is below acceptable levels, and Computing Sub-Group and the new Planning Unit for Information and Central Services will continue to address these issues in the years to come.
1985	One of the Model 30's in the Room has a faulty mother-board, and the cost of repair would be prohibitive.
1985	You will have noted that the Support Officer has resigned, and, until a replacement is appointed, we will continue to have problems with the fault logging and consumable requisition systems.
1985	To log in to Edinburgh University
1985	Unauthorised access is a criminal offence under The Misuse Act 1990.
1985	2 The HENSA public domain micro software archive
1985	2 The HENSA public domain micro software archive
1985	Hans — Suggested specification for Ferguson-funded system
1985	Can we use this for networking, and if so, how?
1985	The transfer of information between systems is at the heart of our current computing strategy.
1985	Whereas 1 and 2 above are interactive, 3 and 4 do not permit us to transfer data from other , or to allow external access to our data files.
1985	We would like to have access to the UK's JANET system, which allows access and file transfer between nationally and internationally, to the BIDS information service, to the OCLC bibliographic data files for catalogue conversion, and to international information systems, to facilitate co-operation, collaboration, information and cost-sharing between institutions.
1985	The Internet is a system for connecting together.
1985	It operates internationally, and crosses the divide between academic and commercial traffic (previously JANET would not allow charging for access to commercial databases using its facilities).
1985	This allows the user to log in to distant , e.g. Missouri or Canberra Botanic Gardens, to see whatever these sites will allow us to see.
1985	This allows us to send and receive files (as distinct from but including messages) between .
1985	include FINGER, for ‘telephone'-type enquiries, i.e. finding the e-mail address for the person or institution you want; GOPHER, a system of linked menus to help find resources anywhere in the Internet; ARCHIE, which allows searching indexes to remote to find out which of their searchable files are of interest to you; WAIS, for searching remote databases; and WWW (World-Wide-Web), which is similar but which uses an extremely user-friendly full screen with hypertext features.
1985	3.1 management
1985	The Users’ Committee reports to this Sub-Group.
1985	The equipment now installed represents a considerable financial investment on the Garden's part, and it is essential that the investment be protected.
1985	The most expensive items of equipment at present are the file servers, which are kept in secure store in the Room.
1985	3.4 Training
1985	Members of the Computing Sub-Group have considerable expertise in a variety of computing skills, and it should be possible to identify individuals from this Group who can provide training, in addition to the Support Officer.
1985	The documentation should be written by Taxonomic Computing staff, with input from the Support Officer in his training role.
1985	The aim should be to have hard-wired network data connections in close proximity to all potential users.
1985	This version will also enable us to network the Garden's Mac , the proposed graphics and/or GIS Unix workstations (see below) and other non-DOS environments.
1985	A topological diagram of the system will be part of the inventory to be provided by the end of January 1993.
1985	At the same time, the new digital system — ISDN2 — offers the possibility of using the same lines for either telephone or communication.
1985	Workstations with modems could then access the national and international communications system.
1985	An X-25 gateway has recently been installed to link Payroll with the Chessington Centre.
1985	The Acquisitions Librarian will liaise with the Support Officer on the DTP involved.
1985	Those preparing or using illustrations for publication should be trained in graphics, to spread the expertise as widely as possible.
1985	Initially, the output should be produced by agency from disks, but if requirements should increase, for example for the M.Sc.
1985	Users Group
1985	Support Officer
1985	Before the Garden invests further in equipment, cabling, and other IT equipment, the Management Group is to advise Management on our existing IT situation, and to provide plans for the logical development of computing and other IT facilities.
1985	A wide-ranging consultation exercise is an essential part of the Review, and I shall be taking advice within the next few weeks from individuals (non-computer users included) as well as from the Users Group.
1985	It is recommended that we purchase from Action Supplies, our usual printer supplier, who has the lowest price that I have seen for this printer at the moment.
1985	The installation of the Library's package means that all cataloguing functions are carried out on-line.
1985	The Consultative Group is trying to improve user support facilities for our users, and we have now reached an agreement with Edinburgh University's Computing Service for the provision of support.
1985	We always welcome the views of all staff on computing matters, and if you are unable to attend the meeting in person, you are invited to express your ideas to Dr David Chamberlain, who chairs the Users Group, before the meeting.
1985	Please feel free to raise any problems, training needs, ideas for development, etc.
1985	RBGE Preventative Maintenance
1985	a)
1985	Management
1985	The resources comprise several large and well-known collections of data, such as the library, databases and the photographic collections, and many other less obvious databanks, such as staff knowledge and specialisms, together with the methods by which the information is accessed, used, stored and disseminated.
1985	(We want, for example, systems which can exchange data between each other ).
1985	We recognise that our resources are different in nature and serve different purposes, and that whilst may suit one use, paper records are better for others.
1985	We must not again get into the situation where the working of our Garden Records system was dependent on keeping an obsolete going well past its normal expected lifetime.
1985	The major ‘internal’ information resources within RBGE have been identified as the library and archive collections, the photographic collections, systems, publications, scientific and horticultural data collections, staff expertise, and administrative data.
1985	All of these problems could be overcome if the Archives were to be microfilmed and indexed using a Aided Retrieval (CAR) system.
1985	An entry-level system, with built-in development potential, has been planned in co-operation with the GEAC company (one of the largest in the field).
1985	The development of other Library-based databases in place of, or supplementary to, existing analytical indexes, was dependent on the Garden appointing a scientist with considerable expertise in database design.
1985	Library staff will co-operate in the production of a catalogue, and in the eventual integration into an image database.
1985	The Garden's facilities consist of a mixture of stand-alone and networked PCs.
1985	We need to implement a rolling programme of equipment upgrading and replacement, recognising that the life expectancy of equipment is of the order of five years.
1985	Evaluation of GIS hardware (digitisers, , plotters) and software should begin in 1992, and a decision on in-house versus contracting-out will be possible by the end of 1992.
1985	in Experimental Work
1985	The current situation in Horticultural Education, where over forty students are sharing two PCs, is unsatisfactory, but the demand for time is very uneven, peaking during the preparation of 3rd year dissertations, and being very low at other times.
1985	The Plant Records Database is a large, developing, database of information relating to plants in RBGE.
1985	In the long term, electronic scanning and linking to an image database could provide a secure back-up to the herbarium collection, a means of transmitting images to other institutions, and a method for collaborative working between institutions using real-time conferencing.
1985	Where there are inter-departmental committees discussing particular issues, such as the Consultative Group, the Herbarium-Library Extension Committee and others, copies of edited minutes should be deposited in the Library.
1985	The Garden Label Engraver should be moved to the Inverleith Row offices in the interests of improving efficiency by using online links to the Plant Records database.
1985	Whilst some of our design work can be contracted out, the recent installation of hardware and software dedicated to graphic design will reduce costs after staff have been suitably trained.
1985	This will strengthen and widen staff contacts, and improve access to facilities, such as address lists, DTP, and communication equipment.
1985	The Consultative Group could serve as the model for this committee, which would oversee current activities in this field, suggest new developments and initiatives to Management, and monitor their introduction.
1985	A photographic company might wish to support our conservation programme for glass negatives; a charitable trust may be willing to support the microfilming of the archive collection, or the establishment of an image database; European Community funding may be available for information technology and database work; potential employers may be able to help with training for DHE students; specialist societies and scientific groups may help to fund image databases or conservation-related biogeographical studies, and educational publishers are likely to be interested in interactive video for schools and colleges.
1985	The preparation of educational material, such as educational information packs and interactive video projects, can be carried out efficiently using networked for data exchange, and for cutting costs by sharing printers and other output devices.
1985	The Botanic Gardens Education Network will require high-speed, low-cost access to gateways for communications.
1985	Horticultural research will require better equipment, software, and staff training.
1985	Specialist image analysis equipment for light and electron microscope images also require interfacing with powerful .
1985	There should be a continuous review procedure for the development of hardware and software facilities.
1985	Aided Design.
1985	The most common operating system for IBM & IBM-compatible .
1985	A type of non-relational database, peculiar to Apple Macintosh , sometimes used for the development of interactive video systems, since different types of file (text, image, sound) can be searched at the same time.
1985	A Local Area Network is a way of connecting together so that they can use the same database software, exchange information, or share the use of printers and modems.
1985	A piece of communication equipment used to enable to send data to and from each other.
1985	Within RBGE, modems are used to transmit data from other using telephone lines.
1985	The Library carries out literature searches on behalf of staff, by interrogating large bibliographic databases which are mounted on very large .
1985	The systems commonly searched in RBGE are BIOSIS and SCISEARCH , which are on the large DIALOG in Palo Alto, California, and BLAISE, the system produced by the British Library.
1985	The are accessed by means of a modem linked to a PC and a telephone line.
1985	The software which determines how particular handle data — input, storage, processing and output.
1985	display information on screens using a specific piece of hardware to process screen data.
1985	A recent demonstration of the 3M Aided Retrieval system, which uses microfilm cartridges linked to a computer-generated indexing system, has suggested a cost-effective way forward here, which does not cut itself off from future DIP systems.
1985	A variety of operating systems (DOS, VMS, Unix V) were considered during the planning stages of the upgrade.
1985	Modem linkage for Dawyck will be needed within the next five years, and it may be that at that point we could decide to install a multiplexor to deal with all of our external links — use of local EUCS services, JANET, PSS, Royline and others.
1985	B. Scientific databases (held).
1985	estimated income and expenditure records since 1986 held on disk and paper file for reference.
1985	Actual Income and Expenditure records since 1986 held on disk and paper file.
1985	RBG annual accounts since 1986 on disk and paper file for reference.
1985	RBG Asset Register with depreciation summary giving Net Book Value by department and asset type on disk and paper file.
1985	Departmental expenditure on travel and subsistence by staff member and department from 1988 or by department since 1986 on both disk and paper file.
1985	Use of (a) to hold maps in digital form for ready updating and graphic overlaying of services,(b) detailed record of all work carried out (ie cost time, nature, etc) on property for historical reference and future planned maintenance.
1985	When payroll on line to Chessington full use of software packages to provide information on is envisaged.
1985	The extension of the current contract with Chessington Centre for a further two years will provide time to assess the various options open to RBG for the processing of payroll.
1985	Many of the categories of resource can be further sub-divided, e.g. data includes plant records, mailing lists and other databases, financial data, estate plans, etc.
1985	The public comes into contact with our information resources at most points, with the exception of some of the more specialised sources which we use internally, such as data, administration files, and communications.
1985	We should consider the possibility of public access to some of our data, through the use of public access catalogues (library); enquiry modules on databases (horticultural information); and interactive video (exhibitions, horticultural information, scientific data, informative ‘publications’).
1985	They should also be able to call on information technology, in the form of good , software, presentational aids, and communication facilities.
1985	The use of within taxonomy is developing rapidly in response to these perceived limitations.
1985	Conventional taxonomic publications can still be produced using , but much more rapidly and cheaply.
1985	One either needs enormous amounts of storage space for a very large data dictionary, or one needs very fast data processing for string searching.
1985	The industry is the most rapidly changing one in the world at present.
1985	Network Shut-Down Procedures in power emergencies.
1985	Switch on the PC which sits beside the two terminals in the Room (it's the only one).
1985	On price grounds, the BS tender is clearly well below that from DCS, and there is no technical difference between the two offerings.
1985	We therefore recommend that the order for 9 PCs as per quotation should be placed with BS .
1985	We also append the quotation from BS for the supply of an Apricot Lan-Station as discussed and agreed at the January 1993 Computing Sub-Group.
1985	Each time you <Load> a file,Word makes a new copy of it and places this into your 's memory.
0000	I'm hardly the type to rob a bank with a sawn-off shotgun and a stocking over my head — I'd more likely do it using a or something.
0000	It does have the advantage of the not going off in the heat of the moment and hurting some innocent bank clerk, though.’
0000	‘Was that your game, then, ?’
0000	‘I'm not one for , me.
0000	In fact, he'd beaten the crap out of two bailiffs and then been caught in possession of several extremely valuable and extremely stolen .
0000	They've taken away the master file and charged him with, well, we don't know exactly what but it involves an awful lot of money.
0000	At a special awards ceremony held at London Zoo, Citizen Europe awarded over £11,000 worth of equipment to the winners of "Datachase" — a WWF education project, sponsored by Citizen Europe.
0000	"Datachase" had three main objectives: to encourage young people to learn about environmental issues; to help students develop presentation and creative skills through the use of , and to demonstrate how problems can often be most successfully solved as a result of collaborative effort.
0000	The school is open all year round and occupies two large buildings with 37 classrooms, language laboratories, videos, , library, listening centre and bookshop.
0000	International House Hastings is centrally located and occupies two spacious buildings with over 40 classrooms, two language laboratories, two self access centres, videos and , bookshop.
0000	I.L.I. has a modern self-access language laboratory; audio, video and resource materials; a reference library; and a bookshop.
0000	It has 4 classrooms, a large student room and it is equipped with a self-access centre containing video machines, and a mini-language laboratory.
1990	The database was to be established from 1993, although differing legal standards for the protection of data could still cause technical problems.
1990	Hissene Habre President of Council of Ministers; National Defence, War Veterans and Victims of War Djidingar Dono Ngardoum Minister of State Acheikh bin Oumar Foreign Affairs and Co-operation Djime Togou Interior and Territorial Affairs Wadal Abdelkader Kamougue Justice and Keeper of the Seals Mbailem Bana Ngarnayal Finance and Gouara Lassou Agriculture and Rural Development Assilek Halata National Education Ibn Oumar Mahamat Saleh Planning and Co-operation
1990	A number of exercises would be conducted using simulation, rather than actual troops.
1990	Airbus Industrie rejected any suggestion that the aircraft itself was to blame, but its sophisticated "fly by wire" system had been criticized by some experts as over-complicated, and Indian Airlines staff complained that pilots and maintenance crew had received insufficient training on the Airbus.
1990	The prosecution also alleged that in the early hours of Nov. 24, 1986, when investigators began searching the National Security Council offices for documents relating to the affair, Poindexter had erased more than 5,000 files from the memory of his .
1990	Poindexter acknowledged that he had deleted messages, but claimed that this was part of his normal routine.
1990	In June a settlement agent in Fort Worth, Texas, was indicted for embezzlement, an agent in Birmingham, Alabama, was found guilty of the theft of $168,000, and a operator in Denver, Colorado, was found to have transferred $313,127 in HUD funds to his own account.
1990	Conviction of hacker
1990	On Jan. 22, 1990, Robert Tappan Morris, 24, a suspended graduate student of Cornell University, was found guilty in Syracuse, New York, of breaking into and jamming a network.
1990	This was the first case of a person brought to trial under the 1986 Fraud and Abuse Act.
1990	Morris had been charged with creating a programme (a "virus" ) in 1988 which entered and blocked Internet, a network used by over 6,000 including those at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and military establishments.
1990	There were demands in the press for the militia to be allowed greater use of firearms and for Interior Ministry troops to be provided with more and better equipment (notably , communications equipment and vehicles).
1990	This presented the unanimous view of the working group (consisting of leading climatologists), based on nine models, that average global temperatures would be between 1.4 and 2.8 degrees centigrade above pre-industrial levels by the year 2030.
1990	Michel Meva'a M'Eboutou Minister-Delegate at the Presidency for Defence Ibrahim Mbombo Njoya Territorial Administration Yaou Aissatou Social Affairs and Women's Affairs John Niba Ngu Agriculture Ogork Ebot Ntui Minister at the Presidency in Charge of Special Missions Emmanuel Zoa Oloa Minister at the Presidency in Charge of Special Missions Joseph Tsanga Abanda Industrial and Commercial Development Joseph Mboui National Education Hamadjoda Adjoudi Livestock, Animal Industries and Fisheries Abdoulaye Babale Higher Education, Scientific Research, Public Contracts and Sciences Sadou Hayatou Finance Joseph Owona Public Service and State Control Henri Bandolo Information and Culture Joseph Fofe Youth and Sports Adolphe Moudiki Justice; Keeper of the Seals Francis Nkwain Lands, Water and Energy Elizabeth Tankeu Planning and Territorial Development Sanda Oumarou Posts and Telecommunications Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh Foreign Affairs Joseph Mbede Health Paul Tessa Public Works and Transports Jean-Bedel Bokam Labour and Social Welfare Ferdinand Léopold Oyono Housing and Town Planning Edouard Akame Mfoumou Secretary-General at the Presidency Laurent Esso Director of the Civil Cabinet at the Presidency Titus Edzoa Special Adviser to the President Benjamin Itoe Tourism
1990	The control regime was liberalized for , machine tool and telecommunications technology (microcomputer exports having been permitted since August 1989); companies seeking exceptions to remaining restrictions would have to wait only eight weeks for permission, rather than 12 weeks as hitherto; and countries such as Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, if they were prepared to introduce their own controls on use and re-export, might expect more favourable treatment.
1990	Manufacturing, which had been the leading sector in 1989, was expected to be less significant in 1990, with a world fall in demand for hardware.
1990	Although the stock exchange was closed for the day as a result of the explosion, trading was largely uninterrupted since the central system remained undamaged.
1990	Nixdorf, one of West Germany's leading manufacturers, had been under severe financial pressure during 1989.
1990	According to Datamation magazine the new company would be the world's sixth largest and information systems company.
1990	A Basel court on March 17, 1989, found a specialist guilty of passing economic information to the Soviet Union and sentenced him to 45 days in prison.
1990	To make such fraud more difficult a new electoral roll was to be compiled, new voter identification safeguards were to be produced, there was to be access to the electoral commission's at the time of counting, and disputes were to be settled by an electoral court.
1990	Those sentenced for espionage included three people arrested in March 1989 and sentenced on Feb. 15, 1990, for hacking for the Soviet KGB.
1990	It appeared that Tyminski had left Poland penniless in 1969, travelling first to Sweden and then to Canada, where he built up a business empire centred on a automation firm.
1990	It provided for court confiscation of convicted drug dealers' assets, and the granting of authority for telephone tapping and surveillance of and access to systems of suspected drug criminals.
1990	It was reported on Aug. 22 that a German national, Egbert Partesius and an Afghan, Abdul Aziz Ahmad, were arrested in Phoenix, Arizona (USA), on charges of trying to sell a VAX 8820 with military applications to the Soviet Union.
1990	On Oct. 23, 1989, it was confirmed that the Italian government had investigated allegations by the US that the Italian company, Olivetti, had breached COCOM rules.
1990	US critics opposed to the sale had said that the could be used to design nuclear weapons.
1990	The malfunction of controlling three astronomical telescopes of the US$150,000,000 Astro-1 observatory, which the shuttle was transporting in its cargo bay, led to a serious reduction in the original programme to observe 250 distant stars, galaxies and quasars at ultra-violet and X-ray wavelengths.
1991	On April 3 the French government had announced that it was committing F4,000 million in new capital over two years to the loss-making concern Groupe Bull — which was 93 per cent state-owned — and making a F2,700 million contribution to its research budget over four years.
1991	Webster's resignation came only a month after a fire in the US embassy in Moscow, which apparently led to the loss of disks and other sensitive material when Soviet firefighters, possibly including State Security (KGB) agents, were allowed to move unescorted through parts of the building.
1991	One of the flight had to be replaced along with nine fuel sensors and a critical electronic unit or "black box" .
1991	Japan and the United States agreed on June 4, after some years of often acrimonious debate, to extend for a further five years the deal reached in 1986 on the easing of access to the Japanese market for US manufacturers of chips for use in assembly.
1991	The USA had threatened to impose a 100 per cent retaliatory import tariff on some $165,000,000-worth of Japanese personal every year, unless Japan took action to implement the 1986 agreement; it had, however, eventually agreed to give Japan another 18 months, until the end of 1992, in which to build up US imports to the agreed 20 per cent market share.
1991	Norwegian police confirmed the arrest of two Norwegian businessmen suspected of selling the to a UK-based company which subsequently arranged for their shipment to Pakistan.
1991	In response, China had passed copyright and software protection legislation, although it was criticized as "inadequate" by the USA in trade talks in Beijing on June 11-15.
1991	Increased numbers of photocopying and facsimile transmission (fax) machines and contributed to the evasion of media restrictions.
1991	In addition some 20 items, including platinum, raw jute, and floppy diskettes for , were removed from the list of products which could only be imported by a government agency.
1991	It was also reported that considerable quantities of files and disks had been seized during the raids.
1991	The largest industrial concerns were electronics, assembly, artificial fertilizers, machinery, metalworking and textiles.
1991	Other companies undergoing similar difficulties included Thomson (electronics), Groupe Bull (), Rhône-Poulenc (chemicals, pharmaceuticals) and Air France [see also p. 38156].
1991	On Oct. 25 Philips, the troubled multinational electronics company based in Eindhoven, announced that it would be cutting between 35,000 and 45,000 jobs from its 285,700-strong workforce by December 1991, in addition to 9,000 jobs cut in July 1990 from its European and components businesses.
1991	Relations with Japan were again soured by allegations of "dumping" of components, cars, foodstuffs and other products, as Japan's trade surplus with the EC continued to widen, reaching $6,310 million in April 1991 alone.
1991	On arms control, China agreed conditionally to accede to the 18-country Missile Technology Control Regime, which would limit its arms sales to Pakistan and Syria, in return for the lifting of US sanctions, imposed in June, on exports from two Chinese arms companies, high-technology sales and joint satellite launches.
1991	On intellectual property a Chinese team was to visit the USA on Nov. 20-21 to try and resolve issues of copyright violation and software and patent protection.
1991	The US Representative for Trade Negotiations, Carla Hills, said that Chinese proposals on ending violations of copyright, software and patents had been "ultimately insufficient" and subsequently announced a list of Chinese goods worth $1,500 million which would be affected by proposed sanctions, including 100 per cent tariffs, provided for under Section 301 of the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act.
1991	Consumer electronics exports grew more slowly than in the previous year, but sales of disks rose by 31 per cent to S$7,200 million.
1992	The Japanese also promised to improve access for foreign companies to markets including glass, paper, legal services and .
1992	A matter of hours before the Jan. 16 deadline agreement was reached on the final outstanding issues — software and chemical patents.
1992	In a full memorandum of understanding signed on Jan. 17 China agreed to provide protection for US inventions and copyrighted works, including software, product patents, sound recordings and trade secrets.
1992	Documents discovered in a raid on offices of the Salsabeel company in Heliopolis showed, he said, that the group was financed from abroad and that it had links with Islamic investment companies in Egypt and the Moslem Brotherhood.
1992	US and Russian officials also began talks on creating a joint centre to provide early warning of any ballistic missile attacks by other countries, the Washington Post reported on Feb. 19.
1992	At the same time new regulations on imports were issued allowing the import of around 40 items, including consumer durables, , chemicals, shoes and vegetable and mineral oils, from countries other than India.
1992	Its leaders were said to have been three executives of the Salsabil company, who were now under arrest.
1992	The Quick Count organization suffered from problems, however, and other unofficial tallies continued to leak out from the count.
1992	The CPI report, published in late August, contained evidence from seized files which revealed that Farias, through influence peddling, had diverted an estimated US$6,500,000 into "phantom" bank accounts controlled by Collor and his family.
1992	Airlines would be allowed to enter into open code-sharing arrangements with other carriers and benefit from non-discriminatory operation of, and access to, reservation systems.
1992	The government on Nov. 10 established an inquiry into the operation of UK export licensing policy in relation to the export to Iraq, by a previously Iraqi-controlled engineering firm, of machine tools and software which had a potential dual civilian/military capability.
1992	Voting was freely and fairly conducted, with more than 81 per cent of the country's 29,000,000 registered voters participating in the poll and votes being tallied with abacuses in order to avoid the allegations of fraud which had marred the 1987 presidential elections.
1993	With the facility of it is possible, as shown by other unions as well as forward-looking branches of our own, to communicate with members on a personal basis.
1993	Technology is changing our world so much that small groups of people through and elsewhere are able to determine vast patterns of human behaviour  and so it's gonna be a long struggle  but through our struggle in Africa and your struggle here  where we all want democracy but democracy's only a process  what we have to contend with is also power  because ultimately it's only when you're able to exercise that power that you can deliver for the majority of the people .
1993	I believe that our new system  when it's linked to all the regions, will have the potential to  access detailed health and safety information and I hope we will use it  er, and make the information technology that is available to further our health and s safety service delivery.
1993	They've got erm an adult literacy course if you want to brush up on your reading and your writing they've got courses they've got a course in sound engineering and a works skills for women course which is what Sarah did.
1993	It's the erm oh what it is right it's a .
1993	personal yeah.
1993	A musical .
1993	Well it's not just a music it's, everyone uses a
1993	Well this is all you know I I don't understand anything about and things.
1993	And normally if I get near a it goes wrong.
1993	hate me.
1990	The solution for rm cannot be found analytically and has to be found through numerical iteration using a or a programmable calculator.
1990	What for example is the market value of a three-year old mainframe , or a seven-year old fork-lift truck?
1990	The ubiquitous tools of this form of inquiry are a multiple regression program and a data bank of all variables that might be relevant.
1990	These calculations can be easily set up on a spreadsheet and variations may be performed to determine the best-looking selection according to the investor's risk-return preferences.
1993	feed the names into our ,
1990	At a time when technology was advancing rapidly and any given computer-based business management system tended to be technically obsolescent in a short time, a company made a reasonable decision that all such would be depreciated at 50 per cent per annum, making prudent financial provision against their short useful lives.
1990	When the company began to embody in its products, the engineers responsible were dismayed when they found that a 50 per cent overhead on the purchase price of the hardware had been charged by the estimators.
1990	Following the logic of the last two columns of Table 6.1, a network diagram is drawn (Figure 6.4) in which the lines between the nodes represent the jobs, the nodes being numbered to identify the jobs for the benefit of a , if used.
1990	This is necessary to avoid ambiguity, unnecessary constraints in the plan and to avoid forming loops from which the cannot escape.
1990	Like a , it may lend credence to false data.
1990	This is largely overcome by using a to print out a new set of data at each revision, but there is a tendency to allow the plan to fall into disuse in the later stages of a project because of this.
1990	It is again a network but it is more like a program flow diagram than either PERT or CPM.
1990	The analysis of the RPD is best carried out by since it involves tracing every possible path through the network and calculating the   cumulative probability for each path.
1990	12 in R&D
1990	The impact of on almost every aspect of industrial life has been most marked and it would be strange if R&D and project management had escaped.
1990	The current status of and microcomputers in R&D, and the probable course of development in their use, is a more useful area of study and has been taken up by a group at Manchester Business School, UK (Morse, 1984).
1990	In the main, R&D establishments tended to have stand-alone with a high proportion of microcomputers, nearly nine out of ten having one or more.
1990	Its main disadvantage, the sorry state the diagram reaches when manually drawn out versions are used for monitoring and are continually amended, is no longer a disadvantage when a is used.
1990	There is an even cheaper method of starting to use for a wide variety of tasks.
1990	The small snag is that it costs considerably more than the purchase price to buy a licence to use them and a licence is required for each .
1990	It can be used on a hard disk or a floppy disk type with two disk drives.
1990	An extensive questionnaire was designed, proved and applied on site to 28 pairs of companies and the answers were analysed on a .
1990	The largest available in the UK at that time was ATLAS and the data collected saturated the machine.
1990	In 1967 Godfrey Hounsfield of EMI Central Laboratories reported that X-ray tomography had now become a practical proposition  because of the advance of .
1993	In respect of a job requiring ability to access, input and retrieve information from a , it would not be essential that the employee is able to use the keyboard or read the  visual display if adaptive equipment or software would enable a disabled person to undertake the work, albeit in a different manner.
0000	The aided design and draughting facilities have been enhanced throughout the year with additional GDS work stations and appropriate staff training.
0000	Laptop have been acquired for calculation work both in the office and in the field, and the output from our new electro-static colour plotter is impressive, providing many work opportunities as well as enhancing the presentation of our drawings.
0000	The first thing I sent to London magazine Girl About Town, a light-hearted article about dating, was accepted.
1992	For example, nearly all our downstream operations in Europe have now adopted the same systems for their accounting.
0000	Some of the sound tests were done by a and luckily I had access to a from my dealer in Bath that enabled me to set the sound up perfectly.
0000	In addition to his share of the £136,000 prize fund for his match with Timman, he has already picked up a share (with Timman) of around £500,000 from sponsorship by the manufacturers of the Mephisto Chess .
0000	In the third year, he at last had a role that matched his skills, successfully designing graphics panels for use in the control of switch gear.
0000	His roles have meant a lot of work in ‘behind the scenes matters’, looking after the systems that underpin the Company's facilities.
1993	A Aided Design impression of Johnson Matthey's new technical facility currently under construction at Kitsuregawa,
1993	The latest modelling techniques are used to optimise refining process improvements.
1993	Advanced modelling techniques have been developed to simulate the refining  process.
1993	Some members have started to learn how to enter information into the .
1993	The winning presentation included recommendations on manufacturing, stock holdings of platinum, and for an integrated system in CSD.
1992	The Company holds personal information on its employees on files and, in accordance with the principles set out in the Data Protection Act 1984, undertakes that such information will only be used for purposes relevant to your employment with the Company and will not be disclosed to other bodies without your permission.
1992	Under the Data Protection Act you are entitled, subject to certain limitations, to know what data about yourself is held on and, if you wish to exercise this right, you should in the first instance approach the Personnel Department.
1992	STATE-of-the-art simulators are helping train reactor operators at Chapelcross and Calder Hall.
1992	Calder Hall Training Manager  who was project manager for the installation at both sites, said: ‘These give the operators an opportunity to experience potential events in a realistic simulation and are capable of continuous modifications, development and expansion.’
1992	THE state-of-the-art £144m New Oxide Fuels Complex being built at Springfields will have one of the world's most advanced systems at its heart.
1992	They have teamed up with Instem Systems, who have been awarded a sub-contract worth £3 million.
1992	This has created the need for a highly integrated network of systems and programmable logic controllers.
1992	A SUDDEN second-half blast of three goals put Corporate Management Services in the driving seat of a tense soccer battle with giants, MBS Technology.
1992	In the dying minutes the men rallied to net two in succession and CMS found themselves fighting to hold the one goal difference.
1992	Using the latest travel technology they handle all sites' business travel as well as providing a complete foreign exchange service to BNFL personnel..
1987	Invoices passed for payment could be prelisted in prior to posting.
1987	Bob Anderson posts a letter to ABC ordering a specific priced at £1,500.
1987	Your client Paul Pry has just set up in his own business selling , and hopes to employ several people.
1987	He is also uncertain about whether or not contracts in which he hopes to sell costing several thousand pounds need to be in writing.
1987	The Physical Sciences modules may be used as part of programmes in a number of vocational areas such as medical physics, optical technology, electrical engineering, electronic engineering, catering, instrumentation, technology, metallurgy, building and civil engineering.
1987	The tutor is permitted to assist the student in obtaining and operationalising any resources required for the investigation, eg and software.
1989	It is the intention to monitor constantly the level and type of equipment carried and in fact three of the buses have recently been equipped with Aided Design.
1989	Mechanisms; Microelectronics; Pneumatics; Microprocessors for Control; Structures & Forces Simulation; Aided Design and Communication.
1989	Take Care with Software
1989	The benefits of using in engineering applications is very substantial indeed in terms of reliability, cost and ease of use.
1989	The use of or programmable logic controllers in systems which have a direct impact on safety obviously requires special care.
1989	Professional advice on this topic is available from the Institution of Electrical Engineers, and useful background is available from a report undertaken jointly by the Institution of Electrical Engineers and the British Society.
1989	The possibility of malicious damage should be considered, i.e. hacking and viruses.
1986	Unit and TO
1986	Unit and TO
1986	Unit and TO
1986	training in specialist packages
1986	Jenny to give Ernest list of queries, etc., concerning the for the session at the Area Conference on the up-date.
1993	The details of consultees names and addresses have been entered on the and are stored on several disks.
1993	The benefits of such a system would be that the Consultation List would be available on all terminals, and therefore all personnel could be permitted to update/alter details, e.g. contact names, addresses, to ensure the records are as up–to–date as possible at any time.
1993	To perform the routine tasks of the section and maintain certain databases on the McDonnell Doublas system and several Personal based systems.
0000	Bartlett's ideas on schemata became popular when the development of meant that theories of this type could be programmed (e.g. Minsky, 1975; Rumelhart, 1975; Schank, 1976).
0000	Each subject saw one set of 24 films and rated each on eight different seven-point scales presented by , thus each film was rated by 24 subjects.
1991	Narin's seminal Report to the Foundation, carried out by Horizons Inc. on data from the Science Citation Index, represents the first major effort by any country's scientific policy-makers, to use bibliometric indicators to forecast and plan research expenditure on a national scale, although Price had, in 1969, related the size of a country's scientific literature to its Gross National Product (GNP).
1991	As far as computing expenditure is concerned, ‘Other Physical Sciences’ include many of the ‘number-crunching’disciplines, where large numbers of complex calculations have to be performed on the research data, and so correlation between ranking (as defined above) and expenditure might be expected.
1991	Those theses in which, from inspection of the title, the precise research area covered could be identified, were plotted on a geological map of Scotland (Appendix 6), from which a diagram (Figure 4) was drawn, using the GRAPE package on a Vax 8600 with attached plotter.
1991	The data set was put onto two ORACLE databases on the NERC Computing Services’ Vax 8600 in BGS Edinburgh.
1991	In accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act, all personal data held on files have been erased after analysis.
1991	It is also possible that some research is directed towards developing a technique, methodology, program, or piece of equipment which has wide applicability, but whose initial testing was carried out within some field of Scottish geology.
1991	The pressures of a full-time job, and the lack of availability of research facilities such as libraries, , personal contacts with academics, as described above, inevitably result in some degree of non-publication of thesis research.
1991	Comparisons with can be used for the data transfer elements of this process, modelling the flow of sequential current variations along circuits, and also for the transfer of information, in the form of structured data (i.e. the program) which interacts with the information processing elements of the communicating machines.
1991	Computer-supported collaborative workgroups, on scattered sites, can interactively work on the development of major projects, such as Aided Software Engineering (CASE), or international engineering design projects, such as the European Fighter Aircraft (EFA), in an online environment.
1991	Much of the data contained in these early systems will have been converted to paper tape, then magnetic tape, and today to hard-disks on personal , at each stage accruing data conversion costs.
1980	I was formerly a Lecturer in Phonetics and Linguistics at Queen Margaret College, Edinburgh and while there, I developed a number of programs to assist with my teaching.
1980	Child health is also affected, as the decline in child cycling has been accompanied by a rise in the popularity of and video games, making children less active’.
1980	A few things that have come up from our sub-committee meeting on Monday evening; first, thanks for your quote for , and I've got the application form from SNH to apply for a grant to buy it.
1992	These days, of course, the relatively primitive Lazarsfeldian methods have grown into the full mathematical eloquence of causal modelling, factor and cluster analysis, and more, encouraged by the power of the modern to handle larger and larger data sets and their mathematical analysis.
0000	The transition from traditional management techniques to those based on personal revealed the need not only for good early planning but also for high-level commitment in directing what was to be implemented and for what were described as decision support systems.
1991	in Cartography
1991	Most people think of maps as hand-drawn paper-and-ink products, but now the production of maps by , either plotted on paper or drawn in the form of images on a graphics screen, is becoming commonplace.
1991	Automated cartography, or digital mapping, is the process of storing, editing and generating maps using a .
1991	The effect of mapping techniques on traditional cartography has already been considerable.
1991	Monmonier (1982, p. 2) believes that ‘the digital has had a profound effect on maps, an effect that will equal or surpass the changes in mapping occasioned by the invention of the printing press and the discovery of photography’.
1991	Signals from orbiting satellites forming the Global Positioning System (GPS) can be used to pinpoint the location of objects on the surface of the Earth to within a few centimetres; a mapping system carried within a car (and receiving the car's position from GPS) could, given suitable software, be capable of displaying a map showing the car's location and suggesting alternative routes, such as the shortest, fastest, most economical or most scenic route.
1991	The major advantage of automated over manual cartography lies in the 's ability to store cartographic and associated data and its speed in handling data and calculating results.
1991	4.2 HARDWARE FOR MAPPING
1991	The equipment (hardware) required for mapping can be divided into two kinds: that required to ‘capture’ cartographic data from existing maps and that required to display newly-derived maps.
1991	The coordinates are then transmitted to the host .
1991	A description of the feature located at that point can also be entered into the host using a keyboard.
1991	Since a TV screen works on the refresh principle, that is, the image on the screen is updated every  second, the data forming the displayed image must be sent from the to the screen every  second or the picture will fade.
1991	Colour display systems available for personal such as the IBM VGA allow the use of up to 16 colours (light and dark versions of the primary colours red, green and blue together with their combinations — yellow, cyan and magenta — plus black and white) at a resolution of 640 x 480, or 256 colours at a reduced screen resolution of 320 x 200.
1991	Some have a PrtSc key; if you press this key the screen display is copied to the printer.
1991	The screen display on this machine is ‘memory-mapped’, that is, the contents of the screen are kept in the random-access memory of the in binary form (Chapter 1).
1991	A pen plotter is a device capable of moving a pen across a sheet of paper with high positional accuracy under the control of a .
1991	Cheaper flatbed plotters, capable of plotting on sheets of A4 or A3 size paper, can be interfaced to personal .
1991	The Graftec MP3000 x y plotters are typical of the smaller flatbed plotters used with personal .
1991	4.3 SOFTWARE FOR MAPPING
1991	Some centres do not have a plotter mapping package such as GIMMS (Section 4.3.2) available for use.
1991	He or she may be able to communicate with the central via a network (Chapter 1) but special products like graph-plotter output have to be sent through the postal system, and are thus not available quickly.
1991	Later development took place at the Laboratory of Graphics, Harvard University.
1991	This atlas was one of the first publications to show the value of mapping in geography.
1991	SYMAP was made available to the academic community at a nominal charge, thus allowing many research staff and undergraduates the opportunity to become familiar with the concept of mapping.
1991	The examples were produced using the ICL 3900 in the Cripps Computing Centre, University of Nottingham.
1991	Readers wishing to run the SYMAP program on their local system will need to supply different Job Control instructions unless their centre is equipped with an ICL running under the VME operating system.
1991	Decks of cards, held together (sometimes precariously) by elastic bands were placed in input trays, collected by operators, and fed into the through a card-reader.
1991	Since positioning of a character on a video terminal screen is rather more difficult than punching a hole in a specified column of a card, and because today's users are accustomed to ‘free-format’ input (in which data elements are not defined by their position on an input record but are separated by commas or spaces), the input format demanded by SYMAP may seem inflexible and difficult.
1991	There are too many to list here; the  SYMAP documentation, available from your centre, provides a full account.
1991	As in the case of the SYMAP examples earlier in this chapter, the facilities  of the Cripps Centre at Nottingham University were used and specific examples of Job Control commands will require modification to suit the requirements of your system.
1991	The following GIMMS commands were entered into a file called (on the Nottingham University ICL 3900 system) PMMLIB.GIMMSAF.
1991	The GIMMS commands and line segment data described above are stored in a file called PMMLIB.GIMMSAF on the Nottingham University ICL 3900 system, as described in the preceding paragraph.
1991	This system, like other multi-user mainframes, requires that each job or task be preceded by introductory commands and followed by terminating commands.
1991	The JOB command will differ from one to another, as will the next two commands which relate filenames to unit numbers.
1991	Other operating systems have a different but synonymous command, for example SUBMIT on a DEC VAX/VMS system.
1991	The GIMMS command file is stored in a file on the ICL 3900 under the name PMMLIB.GIMMSMAP1 and the ICL VME Job Control instructions required to place this command file into batch queue number 3 (STA = 3) are:
1991	If the y-dimension of the map exceeds 29cm the map will be drawn on wide paper and the operator will have to change over the paper on the plotter.
1991	Remember that these system commands are specific to the Nottingham University ICL 3900 system; you will have to use the equivalent command appropriate to the system used at your centre.
1991	Other mapping systems may well be available at your local centre.
1991	Whatever mapping system is used, the major advantage of such systems over manual map production quickly becomes apparent, namely, the ease with which maps can be redrafted and revised once the basic polygon data and statistical database have been entered into the .
1991	Automated cartography, computer-aided cartography and digital mapping are different names for essentially the same process, the generation of maps and diagrams by .
1991	Dot-matrix printers, such as those used with popular makes of personal , and line-printers (which are normally used with larger, usually centralized, ) can be used to generate cheap, but not particularly accurate, maps and diagrams.
1991	There is a wide range of such plotters available, from the cheapest A3 or A4 paper size plotter designed for use with a personal to the highly-accurate large flat-bed plotter.
1991	There are several reasons why mapping is increasing in popularity.
1991	Constraints set by different map projections, or by map borders, can be overcome by the .
1991	Secondly, mapping allows the user to experiment; if the final product is not satisfactory then the labour involved in redrafting the map is negligible in comparison with manual methods.
1991	The use of in cartography has had a number of effects; first of all, cartography as a discipline has become more independent of geography.
1991	Secondly, the use of has sparked off an interest in the development of new, more clearly-defined methods in cartography while, at the same time, relieving the cartographer from the labour of manual drafting.
1991	What, in your view, are the advantages and disadvantages of mapping compared to manual methods?
1991	List the steps you would follow in preparing the input for SYMAP, GIMMS or any other mapping package with which you are familiar.
1991	The values recorded for each pixel are expressed on a scale of 0–63, giving a requirement of six bits of storage per pixel.
1991	They can be processed, manipulated and displayed by .
1991	These digital reflectance values are converted to a viewable image by the system shown in Figure 5.10.
1991	The images that the Landsat MSS and TM instruments provide are digital or numerical in nature, and can therefore be processed by .
1991	Indeed, without the use of a it would not be possible to use much remotely-sensed imagery at all.
1991	A is needed to convert these images from numerical to viewable form, either as a picture on a TV monitor or as a conventional photograph.
1991	5.5 SYSTEMS FOR LANDSAT DATA
1991	Any system used for Landsat data processing must be capable of displaying images, preferably in colour.
1991	In this section the equipment needed to allow the to display colour images on a TV monitor is described.
1991	Landsat TM and MSS data are provided in computer-readable form on magnetic tapes called CCTs (Compatible Tapes).
1991	The data stored on these tapes are read by the and placed in a file (or files) on disc (Chapter 1).
1991	Recall, however, that dedicated image processing such as that shown in Figure 5.11 have several bit-planes in each of three memory banks.
1991	Figure 5.10 Schematic representation of a dedicated image-processing system.
1991	Many image-processing systems can perform a number of straightforward operations on the displayed image.
1991	Since a digital image is simply an array of numbers it can be manipulated by ; the type of manipulation depends on the aims of the user.
1991	The could be used to rescale the image pixel values so that the lowest value in the image (25) was interpolated onto the lowest value that the display system could accommodate (0) while the highest value in the raw image (90) was mapped to the maximum value that could be held at a pixel point in the image memory bank (255).
1991	Nearly all present-day are sequential (serial) machines which perform only one operation at a time.
1991	A parallel is described in Section 1.8.3, and it is easy  to appreciate how the use of such a machine could speed up an important operation on digital remotely-sensed images.
1991	Mather (1989) gives more details of techniques described in this chapter.
1991	What processing methods are used to derive thematic maps from multispectral remotely-sensed images?
1991	(Hint: a , like a human being, cannot divide by zero.
1991	An introduction to the use of simulation models in geography is presented in this chapter.
1991	The design and testing of simulation models provides a valuable way of testing the consequences of an idea or theory.
1991	On the other hand, if the simulation is to be carried out by a way must be found of getting the to generate random sequences of numbers such as would be obtained by throwing a dice a number of times.
1991	A is a machine with the attractive property that it does exactly as it is told, yet the outcome of a series of throws of an unbiased dice will produce a random sequence of numbers in which the n + 1th outcome is independent of the nth.
1991	How can a series of fixed instructions cause the to come up with a random sequence of results?
1991	However, scientists have developed programs which produce numbers that are apparently random.
1991	They are called pseudo-random numbers and most have built-in functions which will generate sequences of such numbers.
1991	The possibility of using the to generate apparently random sequences of numbers allows the production of programs which, in essence, copy the human ability to throw an unbiased dice or toss a coin.
1991	A program to simulate the simple stream-pattern experiment described earlier would follow the same lines as a manual simulation.
1991	A southerly slope could be simulated by ensuring that 50% of the random numbers generated by the were interpreted as ‘flow south’ while 20% could be allocated both to ‘flow east’and ‘flow west’with the remaining 10% being ‘flow north’.
1991	The conclusions reached by the planner would not necessarily be valid simply because a simulation model had been used.
1991	Because the calculations involved in powering matrices are repetitive they are ideal for the and so Markov chain analysis is normally performed with the aid of a program.
1991	In the final sections of this chapter, examples of more complex systems are used, and consideration is given to the role of simulation techniques in understanding and predicting their behaviour.
1991	The advent of the has made possible the development of complex simulations of situations in human and regional geography.
1991	The great speed with which the carries out calculations means that experiments can be carried out quickly and cheaply.
1991	Perhaps the most important consideration in making any simulation that uses a program is to know exactly what steps and calculations are needed or, in other words, how a particular system works.
1991	The power of the was indeed appreciated and used in the late 1960s to make a model of the world system.
1991	Whatever the shortcomings of the assumptions made about cause and effect in the relationship between man and the environment (and man with man) the model shows how the use of a to carry out the vast number of calculations necessary to realize the model can allow the consideration of a very complex situation on lines not previously possible.
1991	The offers many possibilities to the geographer who does not aspire to the world model.
1991	While programs already exist for many of these topics it is sometimes more satisfying if one has sufficient ability in programming to modify existing simulations or create alternative programs.
1991	A simulation based upon the hydrological should be able to allow many aspects of river basin behaviour to be considered simultaneously and also enable the simulation of the hydrological response of different basins.
1991	HSP is the most powerful of the available simulation models.
1991	The program must be able to take data relating to local conditions (slope, soil type and depth, amount and nature of vegetation cover, and so on) and output a streamflow record.
1991	Digital or simulation uses the medium of mathematics to represent a system and its behaviour.
1991	The advantages of simulation are:
1991	speed of execution — 100 years in the life of a watershed can be simulated in a few seconds of time, and
1991	flexibility, which implies that the simulation model can be altered easily to take account of changes in circumstances or to allow modelling of a different system.
1991	simulation models which incorporate random effects have been described in this chapter.
1991	systems for the integrated handling of geographical or spatial data are called Geographical Information Systems or GIS for short.
1991	If the cartographic and tabular data could be stored in computer-readable form, then the speed of the could be used to select areas with the required characteristics, derive composite maps, and perform other operations that would be impossibly time-consuming if carried out by hand.
1991	Several private-sector companies have specialized in the production of GIS; among the best known are Arc-Info (ESRI, USA), Intergraph (Intergraph, USA), Informap (Synoptics, USA), 1 2 S (International Imaging Systems, USA), SPANS (Tydac Technology Ltd, Canada), Sicad (Siemens, Germany), METROPOLIS (LaserScan Ltd., UK) and System 9 (Prime , USA and Wild Heerbrugg, Switzerland).
1991	Geographical Information Systems that can run on a personal are now becoming available; examples are SPANS and PC-ARC/INFO.
1991	Scanning has to be followed by processing to join up, follow and extract the lines in vector format for storage in a cartographic database.
1991	Digital maps of slope and aspect can be derived from a DEM if a suitable program is available.
1991	Elimination of the points shown by open circles does not compromise the accuracy to which the line can be represented on a digital plotter, yet storage and processing times are reduced.
1991	manufacturers and software developers have invested large amounts in building programs to handle queries addressed to these databases.
1991	The programs are generally highly complex but are becoming more and more user-friendly as psychologists and scientists develop easier-to-use human-computer interfaces or ‘front-ends’ using the concepts of artificial intelligence.
1991	Each table is stored as a file on the disc system of the (see Chapter 1) and tables can be searched for occurrences of events like ‘all spatial entities having attributes A and B but not C’.
1991	Some systems use raster graphics which generally have a lower resolution than the more expensive vector graphics.
1991	Over 250 Mb of storage are required for the database, which is accessed by an ARC/INFO geographical information system running on a DEC VAX 11/750 .
1991	If it were possible to store all the different types of primary data in computer-readable form then it would become feasible to use the speed of the to carry out the required searches, comparisons, overlays and numerical modelling.
1991	It would then be possible to use mapping procedures (Chapter 4) to display the results of these computations either in the form of hard-copy output or as a picture on a graphics terminal.
1991	The second is the lack of personnel who are trained in geography (so as to understand the problems of spatial analysis) and who have the necessary skills to understand and appreciate the uses of in solving those problems.
1991	The second of these two factors is likely to be the more important constraint in the long run, for even at the end of the 1980s it is rare to find a graduate in geography who is first of all aware of the wide-ranging scope of the subject and secondly is familiar with the operations capable of being performed by a modern system.
1985	He hat eventually decided to ask Security's registry and its for a trace muddling the trail by getting a colleague to send the request for him and burying it in a  list of acronyms as if they had been collected over a period of time.
1985	But it was before they went in for all the cryptonyms and digraphs and five-letter codes because that's what like…’
1966	Harvey said, ‘All our operations are programmed on .
1966	Stok was something no could deal with; perhaps that's what I liked about him.
1966	Inside there were long banks of making a low musical noise like a child's spinning top.
1966	Harvey told me how each part of the was named after a section of the human brain: the Medulla, Pons and Midbrain.
1966	What's more, almost none of them work by binary notation — the normal method for — because that's just yes/no stuff.
1966	‘This is what we call the Corpus Callosum; it's the most complex in existence today.
1966	The banks of machines stretched away into the distance and there were only a few dim lights glowing.
1993	Two open wooden crates, piled high with keyboards, were stacked against the wall outside the headmaster's study.
1993	‘A vast pillar of fire rose up through the floor and decimated the display of the Nugahiro Corporation's new range of lap-top !’
1993	‘I wonder,’ said Robert idly, ‘what the prophet would have thought about games.’
1993	Mahmud glanced briefly up at him, considered this proposition, and went back to negotiating the price of the game.
1992	I lay on my bed with a magazine and, from time to time, went to the window and looked down at the darkened street.
1992	A few magazines, some cash I pinched from Quigley's drawer and my Abbey National card.
1992	I looked round at the picture of Bruce Lee, the travel poster of Malaysia my dad gave me, my certificate of merit for Grade Two Saxophone, my 320 discs, my colour picture of an iguana and the tattered remains of a portable snooker table we got when I was twelve.
1991	Looking forward just a few years, multimedia is clearly going to become a standard, highly influential feature of a vast range of applications in all sectors of our personal, professional and business lives.
1991	In February 1990, the well-known US journal, ‘Byte’, ran a special feature on multimedia.
1991	Materials excluded from micro multimedia include: television receivers where the end user can not effect (sic) the onboard programming, CD-V (linear play), programmable digital watches with graphic displays and audio alarms.’
1991	A useful starting point is to go back twenty years to a time when were still huge, unfriendly devices demanding air-conditioned environments and costing millions.
1991	So the first stage of identifying modern multimedia is to focus on its power to draw together different forms of communication, smoothly integrating them within a digital environment, and providing access to the stored information using systems which are fast, friendly and, above all, interactive.
1991	The demanding processing requirements imply very fast, high performance , probably equipped with special chip sets either to compress and decompress the fast-changing, high volume information flows or to digitise sources of information drawn into the multimedia environment which are not initially in digital form.
1991	In a digital information system, multimedia or otherwise, the ‘crossroads’ and the resulting network of possible pathways are created by a program designed to control and moderate the user's access to the information.
1991	Although interactivity of this kind places some control over access and outcome in the hands of the user, the degree of control is strictly limited by the software providing the interactivity.
1991	There would be no point in designing software to control access to the video disc, unless suitable interfaces are also available to make it possible for the in the system to communicate with the video disc player and control its operation.
1991	The classic GUI is the one designed by Apple in the early 1980s for their Macintosh range of .
1991	software
1991	For example, recent developments such as Sony's Data Discman and other portable CD-ROM systems are rapidly blurring the rather artificial distinction between optical disc and handheld media; fax-based services are frequently offered as mechanisms for providing hard-copy of online or audiotex information; software can be delivered on an optical disc which is, after all, essentially just another kind of electronic storage medium; and online services are often offered to support optical disc information products.
1991	2.5 Software
1991	If we restrict ourselves to products with serious and substantial information content, our focus in the software sector is largely on educational markets.
1991	We will return to games when we look at multimedia applications in entertainment and leisure.
1991	Although, are now widely and fruitfully used in classrooms throughout European schools, they are not used for the purposes commercial publishers expected.
1991	Typically, online systems consist of a central housing large, predominantly textual databases which can be delivered to information users at remote terminals.
1991	The terminals are generally connected to the central by telecommunications links.
1991	Organisations running the systems are known as ‘hosts’ and those owning the data stored on them are called ‘information providers’.
1991	Customers dial up the central , effectively making a telephone link via a modem between their terminal and the housing the databases.
1991	The cost of the service is usually related to the length of time customers are actively connected to the host .
1991	One of the main reasons is that the connections between terminals and host are telecommunication links, usually simple coaxial cables, with what is technically known as low band width.
1991	Although CD-ROMs look much like CD audio discs, they are encoded not with music but information which can be read and displayed by a .
1991	The rate of growth in the last two years has been explosive and forecasts suggest this rapid rise will strengthen during the middle and late 1990s as CD-ROM readers become a standard built-in element of most desktop systems.
1991	The first electronic reference books, therefore, have utilised the same underlying technology as the latest laptop and palmtop .
1991	Recent moves to establish a world standard in memory cards suggest that this kind of publishing may soon extend to desktop of all kinds as well as handheld reference devices.
1991	Looking at growth rates in the hardware industry in Europe for the period 1990 -94, they forecast the following breakdown:
1991	The digital world belongs to the .
1991	This is the reason why digital talk in a language called binary code.
1991	Everything a does, it does in this starkly simple language.
1991	In jargon, each of these binary symbols, either 0 or 1, is known as a bit (a contraction of ‘binary digit’).
1991	A character of information — the smallest information element carrying significance in itself — usually consists of eight bits arranged in a characteristic sequence.
1991	Digital data must eventually be the single language of multimedia because it is also the language of .
1991	Using the environment as our tool we can process and reshape all kinds of information swiftly and perfectly.
1991	In a environment, screen displays are made of thousands of illuminated pixels, points on the screen which can be individually illuminated to form a viewable image.
1991	The television signal enters the environment via a special chip set.
1991	Finally the digitised, manipulated television picture appears on the screen of the .
1991	The key point is that this approach takes video information out of the analogue world and converts it into the digital world of the and this conversion is an on-going, realtime process.
1991	A typical system would be a videodisc player operating under control.
1991	The multimedia output from such a system can either be displayed on two screens with the digital information on one and analogue on the other, or on a single screen with digital information generated by the , overlaid on the analogue images.
1991	The principal technical issue in this bilateral approach arises from the fact that information requires quite different display technology to analogue information.
1991	A far superior approach is to manage the analogue signal in such a way that it can be displayed on a screen.
1991	The heart of the technique is an interface card inserted into the which synchronises the different information sources.
1991	Genlock enables the to handle rapid picture switching and can overlay computer-generated text and graphics by ‘cutting into’ the analogue picture from the videodisc.
1991	However, even if each is to be produced to VGA resolution standards for display on a standard system, a single image will consume about 160 kilobytes of data.
1991	Multimedia databases for display containing thousands of such illustrations would therefore need hundreds of megabytes of storage for the images alone, leaving very little room for anything else.
1991	The simplest example of redundancy is to imagine a personnel record held in a system.
1991	However, a massive compression can be achieved by creating a relatively short code of just a few bytes which effectively tells the that ‘the next 400,000 bytes will be blue’.
1991	In 1990, at a London conference on Chaos Theory, he showed 45 seconds of 30 frames per second video on a desktop , retrieved from a 1.2 megabyte floppy disc, a compression of over 600:1.
1991	In the early 1980s, at the same time that the home boom was at its height, the LaserVision videodisc was exciting considerable interest as a publishing medium.
1991	This means that according to the choices made by the user, a particular pathway is followed through the information, with the drawing as required on the text, sound, still images and moving video stored on the disc.
1991	In this context, the video disc is no more than a peripheral to the , much as any external disc drive might be.
1991	It is simply a source of displayable information, utilised under control as a part of an interactive information product designed for a given purpose.
1991	It was a short step from encoding music on compact disc to encoding information a could read.
1991	CD-ROMs store data.
1991	This means that reading the discs requires the paraphernalia of a .
1991	Specifically, the CD-ROM player (sometimes, as if to emphasise the connection, called a ‘disc drive’) has to be linked via a suitable interface to a .
1991	Search and retrieval software loaded into the serves as the user's ‘electronic hands’ to sift and access the data on the disc which is then displayed on the screen.
1991	This orientation immediately places the appeal of CDROM largely (though not exclusively) outside the consumer environment.
1991	This more or less guarantees that all CD-ROMs, players and will work together.
1991	On the whole, however, CD-ROMs are now as physically integrated with as any other peripheral; indeed, more so since new generation microcomputers are increasingly being designed with built-in CD players alongside the conventional magnetic floppy and hard disc drives.
1991	In other words, CD-ROMs are fast becoming a standard form of storage.
1991	Compared to traditional storage such as magnetic discs, CD-ROM is slow.
1991	This laborious process can be disguised (but never eliminated) by careful product design, such as holding one type of data in the 's memory while another is retrieved.
1991	To process the interleaved, multiple data streams from the ‘XA’ disc and to decompress the audio, a special plug-in card is required for the .
1991	The ‘XA’ standard overcomes this by allowing some audio data to be downloaded directly into the 's memory and then uploaded into the audio processors on the plug-in ‘XA’card.
1991	Although Apple's Macintosh machines have always offered high-resolution screens and excellent graphics and audio architecture, they represent little more than 12 per cent of the personal in use today.
1991	Microsoft have already moved strongly to meet the new generation of MS-DOS multimedia which is about to emerge.
1991	It can be added to a Windows 3 or OS/2 personal enabling it to handle a range of multimedia elements, including high resolution colour graphics, sound and animation.
1991	The specification for running Windows M includes special sound recording, synthesis and playback hardware, as well as a CD-ROM interface.
1991	Many major PC manufacturers will also soon be selling with all the necessary hardware built-in.
1991	The industry has only recently realised that, on the whole, ordinary people do not like and are only comfortable using them when they do not know they are doing so.
1991	This simple idea was the starting point for Philips’ effort to enter the consumer market with a multimedia CD product that felt and looked more like a domestic appliance than a .
1991	The core of their problem was that such a device necessarily had to be a and a powerful one.
1991	Dick Fletcher who runs New Media, one of Europe's leading CD-I development companies, has for long suggested a simple rule of thumb for deciding whether a device is a or an appliance.
1991	, Fletcher maintains, always have their on-off switch on the back.
1991	Although the operational environment of CD-I ensures that, unlike CDROM, it is ideally suited to processing high quality sound and pictures together with graphics, text and numerics, it cannot deliver full screen, full motion video.
1991	The likelihood is that DVI will form an important element of the world of and data processing while CD-I, with or without FMFFV, will appeal to the world of consumer appliances and entertainment.
1991	CDTV uses a CD-ROM system coupled to a powerful , disguised as a domestic electronic appliance.
1991	Essentially, CDTV is a CD-ROM player and a Commodore Amiga home packaged together in a black box.
1991	In its data reading mode the drive can deliver ISO 9660 standard CD-ROM data, displayable on an ordinary television or, if preferred, on a monitor.
1991	Although CDTV, like CD-I, attempts to disguise its origins, it comes with appropriate ports and connection interfaces to make it possible to add a keyboard or mouse, external floppy disc drives and other standard peripherals.
1991	In other words, although CDTV is designed to look like appliance technology, it discreetly provides a conversion option making it possible, if desired, to turn CDTV into an overt system.
1991	In 1989, both IBM and Microsoft issued major endorsements of DVI, suggesting that DVI processing architecture will eventually be integrated into the next generation of desktop and their operating systems.
1991	Currently, Intel offer a plug-in board for MS-DOS personal , embodying what Intel call their i750 chip set.
1991	By mid-decade, Intel hope that personal using Intel chips will be available standard with DVI decompression chips included on the motherboard.
1991	When this happens, everyone buying a personal based on Intel microprocessors will be getting DVI decompression capabilities built in.
1991	John Sculley, the founder of Apple , put it well:
1991	So the question to be asked is how can the authoring of multimedia be taken out of the hands of technical experts such as programmers and be placed firmly in the control of the content, applications and creative experts?
1991	Indeed, a major theme which is influencing the use and impact of in all kinds of applications is the increasingly simple way in which users can make them do complex and powerful things.
1991	This relationship between ease-of-use and power is crucial to the global development of applications in general and of multimedia in particular.
1991	So long as the techniques that determine both how software is used and how it is made are only in the hands of technical experts, systems will never find the universal application which is certainly within their grasp.
1991	It also serves as a comprehensive set of operating system extensions which help to turn any MS-DOS into a multimedia workstation and controls not only the real-time display of video but the video source itself.
1991	The world's most important manufacturers, Apple and IBM, have also created tools to encourage multimedia development using their hardware.
1991	AVC is a software product designed for their PS/2 range of which integrates image and audio capture with media production, authoring and presentation capabilities.
1991	Of course, hypertext is a reality today because of the availability of environments which make it a practical possibility.
1991	Indeed, in the training industry the acronym CBT meaning ‘based training’ is from time to time reinterpreted to mean ‘based trouble’.
1991	Broadly speaking, however, systems have become more powerful and friendly while good authoring software has appeared to put courseware design into the hands of those who understand it.
1991	Under the auspices of the Microelectronics Education Project (MEP), Britain became the first nation worldwide to implement a unified policy to get into the classroom and to develop computer-based curriculum materials.
1991	We will not track the development of the MEP in detail but, despite many criticisms of the way it achieved its objectives, it certainly established the widespread use of in British schools.
1991	Among them was the overly rigid, early commitment to ‘approved’ hardware.
1991	What also became clear was that were much better used with generic programs than with specific software designed to teach, say, mathematics, history or geography.
1991	Used in this way, the has become a valuable background resource in British schools rather than an agent of revolutionary change.
1991	According to current DES figures, he said, there were an average of 41 per secondary school and 4 per primary school.
1991	He also pointed out that recent research showed pupils now leaving school are more literate than adult workers and managers in industry.
1991	At secondary school level, for example, 41 in a school of perhaps 1,500 pupils suggests that the exposure of individual pupils to is still minimal.
1991	At the simplest level, many of the systems require an ‘external’ and an existing installed base will be helpful — so long, of course, as the can be used with the multimedia systems (see 4.10 below).
1991	In addition, the established place of has reduced techno-fear among teachers and has probably made subsequent technology innovation more acceptable to the people who will have to put it to work.
1991	The best news for schools is that a special price is available making it possible for schools to acquire the discs, a laser vision player and an Acorn Archimedes for £899.
1991	After all, nearly 300,000 in schools suggests a ready base of machines to which low-cost CD-ROM drives could be connected.
1991	A DES survey in July 1989 indicated that less than three per cent of school were then capable of running a CD-ROM drive.
1991	Presumably Toshiba and Times Network are counting on the Government funding to assist their initiative otherwise their market will be restricted to those 3 per cent of schools with capable of supporting a CD-ROM drive.
1991	The extra cost of upgrading alone would be a daunting prospect for already over-stretched education budgets.
1991	In his introduction to the book ‘Interactive Multimedia’(edited by Sueann Ambron and Kristina Hooper, published by Microsoft Press, 1988), Apple 's president, John Sculley wrote:
1991	So far, the other great convergence of the 1980s — the ability to interconnect in order to move information through data networks from one site to another — has affected information publishing fundamentally, but only insofar as‘hard’ knowledge is concerned.
1991	In fact, a multimedia database may be called upon to store anything you can store on a or use in an information application.
1991	It now seems certain that cheap, convenient videoconferencing is at last going to reach a mass market of users.
1991	While a modem acts as a two-way interface for text and numeric data between a and a telephone line, a codec does the same job with multimedia information and especially motion video.
1991	Indeed, this is the development that begins to combine videoconferencing facilities with online network applications, the kind of overlap we foreshadowed in the previous sections of this chapter.
1991	In practice, we will soon see desktop videoconferencing becoming a standard feature of communications.
1991	While network users currently can communicate online with colleagues using text inputs to their , videoconferencing facilities will enable users to see each other in a video window in their screens.
1991	Not only will they see each other and converse in real time but they will be able to share and manipulate together the contents of their screens.
1991	The workstations are based on Apple Macintosh which combine images of some of the principal paintings together with a hypertext database of biographical notes, glossaries and a catalogue of the works on display.
1991	In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the home boom looked like a major consumer success in the making.
1991	After several years of shake-outs and restructuring, the home market remains substantial — games software sales in Europe last year were worth about £200 million — but there is little sign that it is going to scoop the true potential of the consumer market.
1991	The reason is that the games industry relies on selling to a market that is more comfortable with appliances.
1991	Although they rely upon sophisticated, on-board technology, they are emphatically designed to be ‘non-computers’ as far as potential customers are concerned.
1991	Philips, Sony, Matsushita, Commodore have all learned the lesson of the home industry.
1991	Devices that are explicitly appeal to a niche market.
1991	CDTV will probably have more problems than CD-I in this regard, being based on the Amiga .
1991	There are also suggestions that multimedia computing will become widespread and commonplace in homes as a further wave of more mature application finds its way into the home market.
1991	For a company in such a strong position, a strategic alliance with a software giant or with another major player in the world makes good commercial sense.
1991	In other words, before a successful multimedia product can be created, the licensee will have to add a considerable amount of value — in terms, for example, of acquiring images, video segments, planning interactivity, doing the underlying programming and ultimately manufacturing and selling the product.
1991	However, the overwhelming reality today is that the Book Trade is highly professional, commercial, competitive, flexible and increasingly literate.
1991	In the UK, W.H. Smiths, once consisting of a modest number of bookselling outlets, is now one of Europe's largest retail chains, aggressively selling a wide range of non-print products, including satellite television services, software, audio CDs and other technology-related items.
1991	There are plausible suggestions that hardware and software outlets will play a major role as will music stores which already quite commonly stock a wide range of audio CD products and videotapes.
1991	Second, it can make exploratory contacts with such organisations multimedia players as Philips, Sony, Matsushita, Commodore, Microsoft, Apple , IBM and others.
1991	For years, libraries have met the demand of their customers for reference services, book loans and, more recently, loans of music recordings and even software.
1991	Indeed, a major hinderance to the uptake of multimedia databases will undoubtedly be the limitations of the installed base of in libraries.
1991	This trend towards ultra-portability is also mirrored in the games industry.
1991	It will be a palmtop information and communication centre, a hybrid mix of , videophone, fax, note-book, organiser, online terminal, entertainment centre and multimedia database.
1991	The technology of virtual reality uses a to map a user's body and senses directly into a digital world.
1991	The kinds of worlds that can be created are limited only by the multimedia software designed to generate them and the processing power available to bring them to life.
1991	Other major applications under development include aided design systems which enable designers to actually enter 3-D models of their creations, to explore their functionality, aesthetics and to alter them using their computer-generated, virtual hands.
1991	In the creation of effective multimedia the professions of information scientist, designer, programmer, systems analyst, film maker, financier, and publisher must somehow be drawn together, either in a single extraordinary person or into a well-managed and effective creative team.
1990	At a time when technology was advancing rapidly and any given computer-based business management system tended to be technically obsolescent in a short time, a company made a reasonable decision that all such would be depreciated at 50 per cent per annum, making prudent financial provision against their short useful lives.
1990	When the company began to embody in its products, the engineers responsible were dismayed when they found that a 50 per cent overhead on the purchase price of the hardware had been charged by the estimators.
1990	Following the logic of the last two columns of Table 6.1, a network diagram is drawn (Figure 6.4) in which the lines between the nodes represent the jobs, the nodes being numbered to identify the jobs for the benefit of a , if used.
1990	This is necessary to avoid ambiguity, unnecessary constraints in the plan and to avoid forming loops from which the cannot escape.
1990	Like a , it may lend credence to false data.
1990	This is largely overcome by using a to print out a new set of data at each revision, but there is a tendency to allow the plan to fall into disuse in the later stages of a project because of this.
1990	It is again a network but it is more like a program flow diagram than either PERT or CPM.
1990	The analysis of the RPD is best carried out by since it involves tracing every possible path through the network and calculating the   cumulative probability for each path.
1992	However, business analysis may often suggest altering business practices rather than always reveal a need for information systems.
1992	We have argued in Chapter 1 that databases offer advantages in storing and presenting the data over manual or file-based systems.
1992	For example, a system can check stock levels and produce a supplier's order request automatically in good time, and this will ensure that there are always supplies of products in stock.
1992	This means that the data analysis stage is as crucial as the implementation stage of the applications.
1992	One fact will be immediately obvious: the users of the information system will not all be trained experts.
1992	Untrained users may make particular requests of the system or they might ‘browse’ through files.
1992	Therefore, although some access to the information system and therefore the database will be made by professional users through programs written in Cobol and other programming languages, some, perhaps most, access will be made by untrained users.
1992	They are often on different , with different capabilities, manufacturers, software and so on.
1992	The data and data structures that have been identified can be mapped on to conventional files or clerical files and not necessarily databases.
1992	Education, about what can and cannot do, will be more important than training in the early stages of the project.
1992	The emphasis on programming in earlier systems was natural: firstly because demanded considerable programming skill, and secondly because the professional was interested in the possibility of solving complex programming problems using the basic instruction set of the .
1992	As systems become more powerful, less stress needs to be paid to problems of implementation (availability of storage, for example) and more to problems independent of implementation.
1992	This model enables the specialist to design appropriate systems for the organisation, but it also provides management with a unique tool for perceiving the business process.
1992	A first approach to an entity model for an academic department of science is given in Figure 3.1.
1992	The problem with the original Codasyl proposals was that there is no clear distinction made between the conceptual or user view and the physical or view.
1992	There are now software tools which can help draw up these diagrams and make alterations easily.
1992	As we have already stated, it may be possible to use completed documents directly as input to a data dictionary system so that the data is held in a readily-accessible format as well as on paper forms.
1992	They are much more understandable to non-computer people than the documents used in conventional data processing, although they are also a good communications aid between people.
1992	However, by the 1970s the early pioneering days of data processing were over and more sophisticated integrated systems were being developed.
1992	I have found more difficulty teaching the relational model to students (who want to think in terms of jargon and are looking for complications that do not exist) than to management students.
1992	It is not necessary to know anything of or file structures to understand the relational model and to use it.
1992	If the target system is a system, it could be mainframe, minicomputer or microcomputer.
1992	In the relation COURSE-DETAIL, there are two occurrences of ‘course’, one numbered B74 called science at the BSc.
1992	level and the other B94 called applications at the MSc.
1992	Having formed an agreed conceptual schema, a model which represents the enterprise reasonably well and is independent of any type of physical system (or otherwise), it is possible to transfer or ‘map’ this model on to a database management system (DBMS).
1992	Implied in the diagram is that one LECTURER can give more than one COURSE (Fred, for example, gives business studies and science) and one COURSE is given by more than one LECTURER (maths by Tom and Dave, for example )— a many-to-many relationship.
1992	Codasyl (COmmittee of DAta SYstems Languages) originally set up in 1959 is a group of commercial and government users in the United States, and representatives from the manufacturing world.
1992	It was largely responsible for defining the business-oriented Cobol language.
1992	One of the main uses of in commercial data processing is for file and record processing and the DBTG grew out of this concern.
1992	The first factor is important in that it brings some applications within the database world (for example, aided design, aided manufacture, architectural design, software design (Case) and office automation), previously ill-served by relational databases because of the performance of relational database systems and because the relational model itself is unsuitable For those domains.
1992	Therefore, even if complex real-world situations can only be represented by complex models, the proponents of the object-oriented model argue that it is only as it need be to represent these situations on and to manipulate those representations for the purpose of processing queries.
1992	The physical schema represents the various file organisation methods that are supported by systems.
1992	for example: ‘Do any lecturers have a PhD?’ or ‘How many lecturers are in the Science Department?’can be answered by accessing the index only.
1992	The documentation provided is oriented towards people and it is difficult for users to translate many of these forms used in conventional systems documentation into their ‘language’.
1992	This technique has had a great deal of impact in programming where it  in systems analysis and design.
1992	In other words, there is a clear distinction between application logic and the representation of that logic.
1992	There will be a separation of any data that the system is likely to want to input, output, process, or store, and the physical record, that will be part of the database.
1992	DFDs can be converted to procedures.
1992	Structured English , for example, is very like a ‘readable’ program.
1992	It is not a programming language though it can be readily converted to a program, because it is a strict and logical form of English and the constructs reflect structured programming.
1992	Decision tables can be used as input, programs being produced directly from them, and are a number of packages available for this purpose.
1992	In the past, systems analysts were first and foremost people.
1992	This is much easier to follow than text which is long-winded and frequently ambiguous or file designs or programming flowcharts which are understandable only to the professional.
1992	However, the specialist is the person who is making the real decisions.
1992	Systems analysts are trained in and knowledgeable of the technological and economic aspects of applications but far more rarely on the human aspects which are at least as important.
1992	As a result of these feelings, users may do their best to ensure that the system will not succeed.
1992	These reactions against a new system may stem from a number of reasons, largely historical, but they will have to be corrected or allowed for if future applications are going to succeed.
1992	Users may regard the department as having too great powers, and controlling (by technology) other departments which were previously controlled by people within the user department.
1992	people seem to have great status in the eyes of top management and are not governed by the same codes as the rest of the company.
1992	Pay scales seem to be much higher for staff, particularly when seen in the light of the length of time that staff have worked with the firm.
1992	In any case, the track record of applications — missed cutover dates, greater costs, fewer benefits, and designs which seem to be very different from that promised — should have led to reduced salaries and status, not  the opposite.
1992	Some of these arguments are valid, others less ‘objective’, but the poor communications between staff and others in the organisation, caused by the use of jargon or a lack of training and education, have not helped.
1992	Somehow these barters have to be broken down if applications are really going to succeed.
1992	One way to help this process is to involve all staff affected by systems in the computing process.
1992	In the past, top management has avoided much contact with systems.
1992	Managers have probably sanctioned the purchase of hardware and software but have not involved themselves with their use.
1992	They preferred to keep themselves at a ‘safe’ distance from .
1992	This cannot lead to successful implementation of systems: managers need to participate in the change and this will motivate their subordinates.
1992	Attitudes are changing, partly because managers can see that without their involvement systems are unlikely to succeed, and because they believe that systems should be able to help them in their decision-making.
1992	Managers are now therefore far more likely to demand sophisticated applications and to play a leading role in their development and implementation.
1992	Communications between and non-computer people within the organisation must also improve.
1992	Training and education of all staff in the organisation about are therefore important for the success of the computing venture.
1992	It is ‘their baby’ as well as that of the people.
1992	The role of the analysts may be more of facilitator than designer, helping to realise the users' wishes.
1992	This includes the form of work structure into which the aspects of the system are embedded.
1992	A likely result of taking job enrichment into account is the reduction of monotony usually associated with the clerical tasks of systems.
1992	The information centre needs to be a centre of education — what can and cannot do, the importance of good standards, security provision and so on— as well as a source of training, reference material and advice on particular problems or the appropriateness of particular hardware and software solutions.
1992	On the other hand, care has to be taken to prevent the scope of applications being limited, as users cannot be expected to know all the possibilities that offer.
1992	Sometimes users resent the time taken from their usual work: they may ask why they should spend their time on ‘’ when they are employed to work on their application.
1993	Take, for example, the purchase of a wordprocessing program for a personal .
1993	The analogy with software is not, of course, exact.
1993	A program (like a dictionary) is a tool that may be repeatedly in use.
1993	‘She is a very, very capable manager’, says Fields, chief executive officer of the industry-led Microelectronics Consortium in Austin, Texas.
1993	Clinton also announced measures to clean up the government's own house, including a commitment that federal agencies will buy ozone-friendly products, energy-conserving , fuel-efficient vehicles and recycled products.
1993	Japanese makers enlist scientists overseas
1993	Japanese makers are turning to scientists overseas to help them develop software and applications for massively parallel supercomputers.
1993	Next month, NEC will ship a Cenju-2 parallel to the new Swiss Scientific Computing Center (CSCS) in Manno, while Fujitsu already has links with Australian scientists and others around the world.
1993	The US industry has long used academics to develop software for new high-performance .
1993	In 1991, Fujitsu loaned at no cost a prototype massively parallel , the AP1000, to the Centre for Information Science Research at the Australian National University (ANU).
1993	The company also has three AP1000 at its laboratory in Kawasaki that serve users in Switzerland, Britain and the United States.
1993	Fujitsu says that the number of foreign users has tripled in recent months and that 21 groups outside Japan are linked to the .
1993	Outside scientists are developing software for generic problems in molecular dynamics, quantum physics as well as parallel software algorithms, graphics and circuit design and device simulation of more immediate use to Fujitsu.
1993	Japanese companies have chosen Australia and Switzerland because they lack a domestic industry that might protest against the import of ‘free’ high-performance .
1993	Furthermore, both countries have a good track record in software and have extensive networks.
1992	Likewise, some hesitate, despite Jeffrey Shaw's specific invitation to stand on the mirror steps onto which his videographic crowds of people and skyscapes are reflected, or pause rather than walking through Judith Barry's wall of words across a animated floor.
1992	New York-based Judith Barry's installation is also uninspiring, didactically retracing familiar issues to do with the dehumanising implications of technology, its potential to control rather than serve humankind. generated references to the history of communications fleet across the floorspace between two walls of words, one written as mirror writing but not as a direct reflection of the other.
1992	I don't know enough about animation to comment on the complexity of experimentation involved (a colleague who works in electronic arts was mildly dismissive), but the sentiments are too predictable to command lengthy involvement.
1992	Students with access to an IBM-compatible also benefit from being able to obtain CAL courseware from the Institute for all of the Pre-Associateship Route subjects.
1992	As students are widely dispersed, the Institute's CAL (Assisted Learning) courses for all nine subjects are of immense value.
1992	The colleges' facilities are made available to students and limited tutorial guidance is available from the college staff, including the setting and marking of homework — a vital element of the CAL concept.
1992	Assisted Learning — CAL
1992	With featuring increasingly in education at all levels, the Institute has extended the market by promoting relevant CAL material to sixth-form students.
1992	The International Foundation for Computer-based Education in Banking and Finance encourages the use of and technology in banking education and training.
1992	The can do more work faster than a human because it doesn't have to answer the phone.
1992	They have had to overcome many difficulties; not least in trying to marry-up disparate systems.
1992	The heart of the system is a highly sophisticated system which, when fully commissioned, will virtually run the milling operation.
1992	Also to , programmer, and wife , on the birth of their child  who weighed in at 7lb 1½ oz on May 8.
1992	After wiring up the Xmas tree lights and programming the , even managed the washing up!
1992	Two trees, controlled sequenced lights, about 40 children and parents from our neighbouring school, a carol service, roast chestnuts, sausage rolls, mince pies, fizzy pop, gale force winds and a torrential downpour.
1992	Not like now, there's this, or that, or the on the blink
1992	Highlights have included survival of a new soup season, commissioning of a new extruder, completion of a new warehouse and offices, the acquisition of two new businesses, gaining  approval for a £2.3m puffing plant, identifying new software and hardware, and commissioning our extended crunchy oven capacity.
1992	controls
1992	The weighbridge also houses the controls for loading.
1992	Receptionist  who has moved back to Newcastle following her husband  's transfer from the centre to  in Durham.
1992	was previously a software trainer for a local company.
1992	There was electricity but no or other office aids.
1992	, 43, is a member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and has had an extensive career in sales and marketing in the wholesale and retail food industry; wholesale hardware trade and the industry.
1992	Tour guide  (left) 's technical manager, shows guests the control room where operator  explains the sophisticated production process.
1992	, from the centre at Ipswich, had the luck of the draw in October when she won two tickets for a weekend in Paris.
1992	She is pictured with boyfriend , operations supervisor at the centre, who  invited to join her on the two-day trip.
1992	The centre nominated the charity and presented a cheque for £500 to  from the Cancer Research shop in Ipswich at the end of August.
1992	cork pops at 400
1992	More than 400 people at all Guinness Brewing GB sites have now been linked into the network that connects all the PC terminals together.
1992	The idea was to link all 400 PC users into all the different systems and networks across the whole of Guinness Brewing GB.
1992	Fibre optic cables and banks of screens also feature inside the rooms, and the whole show is controlled by a central .
1992	I received five years of general secondary education and two years at training school.
1992	During this period I worked as a programmer in Accra for a year.
1989	Anna Pilcher, Trainee Designer, operating the newly installed Design .
1989	Exporting invariably requires a great deal of documentation and specialised pricing, a large part of which is now being handled by the new system.
1989	The dye vats themselves are now controlled by a which automatically operates valves, flow direction and controls temperatures.
1989	Sam Rankin, ‘The Dyer’ for Douglas Reyburn, and Douglas Carlyle, Dye House Supervisor, choose and set the programmes on the .
1989	The Design Studio has expanded again with a new area custom built for their design .
1989	Floppy discs from the design can be inserted directly into the machine enabling a sample to be made within hours instead of days.
1989	These, and other changes, all contributed to the doubling of productivity within those six years, and he is optimistic that it could be trebled as a result of the fast, electronic and assisted information that is now available.
1989	Each part of the production system is now well balanced and the new controlled lines have improved quality.
1989	He now works in the Warehouse, keeping control of the inward deliveries and outgoings of raw materials with the assistance of a terminal.
1989	These were customer built display units belonging to Martin & Frost, each requiring samples of a special size, all of which have been prepared using the p.o.s.
1989	Figures were compared and checked against those provided from the print-out, leaving the manager optimistic about his potential success.
1989	Greater emphasis has been placed on the use of and V.D.U. 's to streamline both sales and production systems.
1989	This was done manually until the introduction of Aided Design which does the calculations instantaneously.
1989	The spacious premises on the first floor were completely reorganised including a new studio where our designer Jacquie Taylor, is able to work with potential customers creating individual designs on the new H.C.S. desk top .
1989	Adaptions are created by the design studio who continuously support the sales force, supplying specially made hand samples and designed coloured illustrations for their client.
1989	The Queen was clearly impressed by the speed of the presentation and with the result and the benefits achieved by using assisted design.’
1989	The new sales office has been established for some time, as has the system connected on direct line to the main processor at Elderslie.
1989	The new machine is reliant on an up-to-date design studio using C.A.D. (Aided Design) techniques that can reproduce each design onto a floppy disk.
1989	Runcorn's design are now equipped with a ‘converter’ as part of a new system to enable compatibility between different languages of each type.
1989	Quality is also expected to improve with increased consistency and uniformity accurately controlled by .
1989	As John Sampson, Retail Sales Administration Manager explained in his farewell speech, Riba was with the company during a period of extensive change from ‘quill pens to ’.
1989	Simon Howard, Programmer, was married to Janie Hunter on June 23rd at Blairshill Dundyvan Parish Church, Cambridge.
1989	As the romance blossomed, he moved from Enfield to be nearer her home in Coatbridge and obtained a new job in the Department at Stoddard.
1989	Most of his colleagues in the Department attended the wedding.
1989	Simon Howard, Programmer has achieved a Grade One, HNC pass in Computing.
1989	An official opening was held at the end of May attended by 150 leading Architects, Interior Designers and Specifiers, including Roger McDowall, Design Manager from Elderslie, responsible fot the design of many Swedish orders.
1989	No CAD's in politics, but Roger McDowell shows how to use the Aided Design facility.
1989	Only two other U.K. manufacturers have recently installed such a machine which replaces the current punch card system with a floppy disk direct from the design studio's .
1989	After working for two years with textile specialists in Macclesfield, Gaynor Bower rejoined Sekers Fabrics in February as Weave Co-ordinator.
1989	Whilst this is being achieved the itself may be changed to a more advanced system as part of a totally new package for the whole of the Stoddard Sekers Group.
1989	Powerful design capable of 16 million colours, fascinated both young and old.
1989	Stoddard Templeton was among them as a major manufacturer, impressively displaying the exhibition logo part woven as a carpet and part as a print out from the design studio .
1989	More Gilbos winding machines have been added in the spinning department and in the Dye House a new office has been constructed to where the colour will be moved.
1989	Leisl Martin, Wages and Purchase Ledger Clerk, completely surrounded by , keyboards, VDUs, typewriters and printers.
1989	He is shown contrasting an original dipping pen — the kind he once used, with the he uses today.
1989	Up to ten needles can be operated separately by programme producing endless designs and colourways at the touch of a button.
0000	Subjects gave yes and no responses as to whether a specific item appeared in a memory set of varying size displayed on a using a within subjects design.
0000	It was found that when a number of digits, or memory set, was presented on the screen and the subject was asked to respond as to whether or not a ‘probe’ digit was in this memory set reaction time increased, although not linearly, as the size of the memory set increased.
0000	UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH, DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE
0000	SCIENCE 2
0000	Review and Comparison of CISC and RISC Architecture in Design
0000	During recent years there has been a growing debate over the merits of the two principle architectures for design, CISCs (complex instruction set ) and RISCs (reduced instruction set ).
0000	CISCs were first introduced in 1963 by IBM in order to standardise the instruction set for their series of .
0000	Before this point, whenever IBM had developed a new it used a completely different architecture from previous models and consequently existing software and hardware were discarded.
0000	IBM, therefore, developed a standard instruction set that would allow the development of faster, more complex without major changes to the 's basic architecture.
0000	RISC I was developed as the university believed it was feasible to build a single chip faster than the Digital Electronics Corporation's VAX-11/780, a CISC design.
0000	Given the limited number of transistors that can be integrated into a single chip , the RISC high-level language is implemented mainly using software, with hardware support for only the most time consuming events such as the passing of parameters in procedure calls.
0000	The main reason that CISCs are still in more use today than CISCs are that commonly used commercial operating systems such as MS-DOS for the IBM PC cannot be emulated well on a RISC .
1987	Even with it is extremely difficult, as the slow progress shows.
1987	Nowadays are used extensively in X-ray analysis.
1987	In recent years, technology has played an increasingly important role in storing and retrieving chemical information (see figure 4.1).
1987	INPADOC has over 10 million of these patent documents stored on .
1987	To produce information, INPADOC uses COM, Output on Microfiche, as one output medium.
1990	It should be noted that owing to the increase in size and complexity of modern business, the development of systems and the requirement that an  auditor should review transactions over a period to report on the profit and loss account, the modern practice of auditing has moved away from a detailed checking of a mass of individual items towards a review of the systems in operation.
1990	This can be smoothed, either manually or by , to control costs, particularly if the resource is scarce or expensive.
1990	On a large contract one of the most cost effective methods of calculating the total cost of disruption is to use a .
1990	modelling
1990	The amount of detail described by the model may vary but the contract activities must be split into sufficiently small parts to allow realistic analysis and modelling of all the significant relationships between different parts of the works.
1990	For example, if the number of tower cranes on site is critical, all tower crane movements must be separately identified in the model.
1989	The number of statistical staff at the 650 was indeed cut by about a third, but as the Pickford report points out, this was made up for by greater use of .
1989	It is followed by a complete hand search of carry-on luggage, entailing the unwrapping of a gift and a demonstration by the passenger that a lap-top works.
1989	The Budd Company, based at Troy, Michigan, was asked by Ford to go’ paperless’, and use throughout the design and development of a front-suspension part for a new car, the Thunderbird.
1989	Ford and Budd hooked their into one another to exchange design information more rapidly.
0000	Its walls are banked head-high with electronic equipment, dominated by a single screen.
0000	Any instrument you could ever need to make a house record is here inside the — yours at the touch of a button.
0000	His brother, who worked in , came round and taught him how to use his equipment.
0000	Write to me if you like: going out, politics, , homebar all kinds of music — Bananarama, Fleetwood Mac, Kate Bush, Sandra, Jean Michel Jarre, Black, Diana Ross and INXS.
1989	And of course, the sheer sadistic titillation of A Clockwork Orange or Julie Christie impregnated by a power mad in Demon Seed.
0000	Full of excellent graphic techniques, and high resolution images of nebulae etc…(30 mins approx.)
0000	An excellent mix of real animated images from NASA/JPL and clever graphics accompanies by The Plant Suite by Holst. (54 mins VHS Hi-Fi Stereo)
0000	This makes control easier when looking down the microscope or when operating a keyboard for image analysis.
0000	That's the sort of conversation you have if you haven't got a database manager like Southdata's SUPERFILE running on .
0000	This is forcing people to equip themselves with in a hurry.
0000	An OCT system automatically copy-types existing printed or typewritten documents into the , thus saving enormous amounts of tedious work.
0000	It will normally product output to floppy disk (either 5¼″ or 3½″), but it can also be connected to a DOS LAN or to a host via a serial interface at extra cost.
0000	This issue sees the introduction of six new CompuAdd PCs — ranging from one of the world's most compact 286 notebook PCs, to a 486 which has just won Personal World's award for Best Power User System.
0000	Now, the world's leading impartial industry report — produced by Dataquest — has confirmed it, by placing us as the Overall Leaders for Customer Satisfaction in their annual user poll.
0000	The news came at the same time as Personal World's first annual awards — where the judges voted our 486-based PC the Best Power-User System (see page 7).
1993	At the moment we are also paying for a specialist company to provide address labels in postcode order (to quality for Presstream) because until a few weeks ago the National Office could not do this task.
1993	John Stephens is aware of this expense and is aiming to have the new ready to fulfil this function any time now.
1993	reported that delivery of the was expected shortly and that the writing of the software programs was under way.
1993	It is planned that the new will be able to produce the mailing labels in the New Year.
1993	system is constantly being updated and is available on-line across the University's own network as well as via JANET and the national and international networks; the Main Library's older guard-book catalogue, which also contains many entries for material in the Faculty Libraries, is available on microfiche.
1993	All students attend a familiarisation course offering an introduction to word processing.
1993	Access to text-files available.
1993	equipment for postgraduate use is also available in the department and in the Main Library.
1993	There is full familiarisation for postgraduates and there are excellent facilities.
1993	Some facilities are available in the Department.
1993	The departmental network is linked to the University's mainframe services for statistical analysis packages and similar services.
1993	The long-term goal is to develop systems that support two-way conversational communication between human users and .
1993	The Faculty has established its own network and provides facilities for students to wordprocess their work.
1993	Arrangements can be made to provide basic and more advanced tuition in the use of in legal and social research.
1993	Particular strengths are History of Musical Instruments (the University possesses two outstanding collections of historical instruments), Opera, Music theory, Electronic and Music (there is a well-equipped electronic studio), Performance Practice.
1993	Bibliography, data-bases, uses of the ; general history of notation from c.1300, including twentieth-century notation; transcription of music from 1450 onwards, including some simple tablatures; basic principles of editing; manuscript studies; palaeography, basic archival study.
1993	Schenkerian analysis; pitch-class set theory; semiotic and other traditions of analysis; analysis, including a course in elementary computer-programming.
1993	Sound Synthesis The composition and  performance of music by , including an introduction to digital synthesis and signal processing as a compositional tool.
1993	The academic disciplines within the Faculty can be divided into three general areas, i.e. Physical Sciences and Mathematics, containing the Departments of Astronomy, Chemistry, Geology & Geophysics, Mathematics and Statistics, Meteorology, and Physics; Engineering and Information Technology, for the Departments of Artificial Intelligence, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Cognitive Science, Science, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering; and Biological Sciences, which includes the Institutes of Ecology and Resource Management, of Cell Animal and Population Biology, and of Cell and Molecular Biology.
1993	These include the Centre for Genome Research, run in conjunction with the Agriculture and Food Research Council (AFRC); the Human Communications Research Centre, supported by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC); the Centre for Molecular Recognition, supported by the Science and Engineering Research Council (SERC); the Centre for Speech Technology, run in conjunction with the Faculty of Arts; the Laboratory for the Foundations of Science, supported by SERC; the Centre for Parasite Biology, with Medical Research Council (MRC) support; the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre, supported by the Department of Trade and Industry and SERC; and the Edinburgh Microfabrication Facility, an SERC silicon chip research and fabrication unit.
1993	Indeed, the Universities Funding Council recently awarded top grade research ratings to our Departments of Artificial Intelligence, Cell & Molecular Biology, Cognitive Science, Science, Electrical Engineering, and Geology & Geophysics.
1993	The Centre has its own library and conference rooms and has access to services for oligonucleotide and peptide synthesis and microsequencing as well as to powerful and database services.
1993	The Unit develops the application of high performance such as Distributed Array Processors and transputer arrays to problems in molecular biology including problems of sequence comparison and database searching.
1993	Strategic research investigates modelling techniques, geographic information systems, rural development, farm planning, micro-meteorology, atmospheric pollution and climate change, the control of diseases and pests, the biology of weeds, tree improvement, plant growth and development, the quality of agricultural products, animal welfare and behaviour, and the improvement of plants and animals by genetic selection and manipulation.
1993	Much of this work results in prediction and simulation models and assisted biological modelling is an important element of research within the Institute.
1993	Several other University departments:(mechanical engineering, physics, mathematics, science and microbiology) are involved in joint programmes.
1993	Postgraduate students usually join one of the five research teams in Structural behaviour and design, modelling of structures and soils, Geotechnical engineering and non-destructive testing, Environmental engineering, and Fire safety engineering.
1993	Modelling of Structures and Soils: Finite element analysis applied to plate and shell structures, geotechnical problems and dry granular solids storage silos.
1993	The Centre's lecturers  and research fellows work with over 40 postgraduates in a rich and varied intellectual and social environment, in co-operation with the Departments of Artificial Intelligence, Science, Linguistics, Philosophy, and Psychology and the Human Communication Research Centre.
1993	Science
1993	The Department of Science has an international reputation for the quality of its research, receiving top rating in the 1986 UGC and the 1989, 1992 UFC research selectivity exercises.
1993	Research in computational theory and its applications is carried out within the Laboratory for the Foundations of Science.
1993	In addition there is an extensive resource within the department, linked to the campus network.
1993	Many topics, such as fluid-rock interactions, fracture mechanics, palaeomagnetic field directions and simulation of fault growth link directly with other areas of Earth science.
1993	Projects range in scale from basin-wide to intergranular; they include seismic, electromagnetic, borehole and outcrop data collection and analysis, laboratory measurements of fluid-rock interactions, and heavy usage for data-processing and simulations.
1993	Studies of large-scale dynamics are undertaken in association with groups from other UK universities using both simple and state-of-the-art models.
1993	Excellent facilities are available for the study of these topics, including sophisticated systems within the department, links to other University and to super at other UK sites.
1993	The department has well-equipped laboratory facilities and houses the most advanced parallel as well as conducting research at national and international institutions.
1993	Work in such areas is complemented by simulation of condensed matter simulations and studies of universality near critical points.
1993	Word-processing and computing facilities on microcomputers and on  terminals linked to the University's mainframe are available in the department, and office space is usually provided.
1993	The department has excellent and video facilities which service laboratories designed for research with normal and handicapped infants, children and adults.
1993	Researchers collaborate with members of the University's Science Department, with neighbouring institutions and with other centres in the PICT network.
1993	Two further modules may be selected from Impact Analysis, Innovation & Extension, Applications, Management of Sustainable Development.
1993	Science
1993	Intended for students with first degrees in mathematical/scientific subjects who wish to specialise in one of several areas of Science.
1993	Students choose one of three themes: Systems Engineering; Parallel Systems or Theoretical Science.
1993	Contact:MSc Admissions, Department of Science (see page 94).
1993	Modules currently available include those listed below, but not all of these may necessarily be available every year: Fundamentals of Management, Human Resources Management, Fundamentals of Tree Improvement, Breeding Strategies & Programme Development, Forestry Curriculum & Syllabus, Training Course Design, Management & Evaluation, Principles of Human Ecology, Management of Sustainable Development, Ecological Ethics & Education, Crop Production Systems, Crop Protection, Innovation & Extension, Farming Systems Research, Animal Production Systems, Prediction & Control of Animal Performance, Management of Rural Machinery, Cultivation Methodology, Land Use/Environment Interactions, Nutrient Cycles: Biosphere/Atmosphere Interactions, Resource Economics, Ecological Ethics, Environmental Economics, Agroforestry, Project Analysis, Watershed Management, Rural Development, Forest Protection Vegetation Management, Irrigation Systems & Water Use, Research Methodology, Multi-Purpose Tree (MPT) Improvement, Understanding Student Learning, Trainer-Training: Methodology, Techniques & Models, Crop Storage Technology, Forest Management, Impact Analysis, Applications, Countryside Management, Management of Biological Reserves, Geographic Information Systems, Women in Development, Tropical Silviculture, Clonal Forestry, Education in Developing Countries, Adult Education, Soil Conservation & Management.
1993	Supporting option courses include areas such as: GIS software and systems; software engineering; GIS algorithms; parallel processing; advanced cartography and graphics; remote sensing applications; natural resource assessment; photogrammetry and digital terrain modelling; public policy and decision-making; locational and simulation  modelling.
1993	Instruction in the use of is available.
1993	Introduction to nonlinear problems with emphasis on practical modelling, illustrative examples from pure and applied science, and use of .
1993	For students with a good undergraduate degree in linguistics, science, psychology, philosophy, or another related subject.
1993	The strands merge in the study of complete systems (human and ) that carry out various linguistic tasks.
1993	The course develops communication (speaking and writing), , data handling and statistical analysis skills.
1993	Many are vocationally-oriented courses of particular significance to the modern world, as the following few examples illustrate Business Studies combined with, for example, Law; Science or Electronics combined with, for example , Physics or Artificial Intelligence.
1993	The James Clerk Maxwell Building houses the Departments of Science, Mathematics and Statistics, Meteorology, Physics, and the University's Computing Service.
1993	It draws its students from a wide variety of subjects, including English, other languages, the social sciences (psychology, anthropology), mathematics, science  and artificial intelligence.
1993	This degree should prepare students for work in the developing field of natural language processing by .
1993	The department has a large well-equipped phonetics laboratory with facilities for recording (both sound and vision) and for the analysis of speech, speech synthesisers, and its own .
1993	A common choice is a broadly related subject such as Applied Mathematics, Science, Linguistics or Philosophy, but the student is free to choose from an extremely wide list of courses drawn from across the University.
1993	The faculty, which is conveniently situated in the central University area, has excellent facilities and resources, including its own library, listening rooms, room, electronic studio, concert halls and practice studios; and a teaching staff comprising composers, performers, historians and theorists.
1993	Either degree can be taken with honours in a single subject, eg BSc(Hons) Molecular Biology or BEng(Hons) Electrical  Engineering, or with honours in two subjects jointly, eg BSc(Hons) Science and Mathematics, and BEng(Hons) Electronics and Physics.
1993	Science 1 Mathematics 1 Engineering 1
1993	Science 2 Mathematics 2 Electrical Engineering 2
1993	Science and Electronics 3
1993	Science and Electronics 4
1993	Special mathematical ability : Artificial Intelligence and Mathematics; Mathematics; Science and Mathematics; Science and Statistics; Mathematics and Business Studies; Mathematics and Statistics; Mathematical Physics; Mathematics and Physics.
1993	Competence in mathematics and certain aspects can demand special aptitude : Physics; Computational Physics; Science and Physics; Electronics and Physics; Geophysics; Astrophysics; Engineering (Chemical; Civil; Electronics and Electrical; Microelectronics; Mechanical); Chemical Physics; Chemistry; Science; Artificial Intelligence and Science; Science with Management Science.
1993	Observational astronomy involves much advanced technology such as solid state detectors, controlled instrumentation, and image processing techniques, and covers the whole electromagnetic spectrum from gamma rays to radio waves.
1993	These experiments involve many different techniques, chemical, physical, cell biological, and immunological, as well as data analysis with .
1993	The use of is taught and encouraged.
1993	Chemistry students in their first year normally take Chemistry with Maths and one other subject which is usually Physics but can be Geology, Engineering or Science.
1993	The breadth of study is maintained in the second year when Chemistry is taken with two other subjects for which there is wide choice including Astronomy, Business Studies, Chemical Pharmacology, Science, Economics, Geology, Industrial Management, Maths, Physics and many others.
1993	The School consists of the Departments of Chemical, Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering and the Departments of Artificial Intelligence, Cognitive Science and Science.
1993	Courses leading to BEng are offered by the Engineering Departments and by Science.
1993	BSc degree courses are offered by Artificial Intelligence and Science.
1993	Secondly, the system allows them to study subjects such as Chemistry, Physics, Economics, Science, Building Science or Astronomy.
1993	Artificial Intelligence is a new discipline that seeks to explain intelligent behaviour by building and testing models of cognitive processes in the form of programs.
1993	It offers the joint degrees of Artificial Intelligence and Science and Artificial Intelligence and Mathematics.
1993	In first and second years students normally take courses in both disciplines, together with an appropriate outside course such as Science or Mathematics.
1993	Our graduates have found employment in management, economic planning, systems analysis and in many areas involving applications in the Engineering industries.
1993	Science
1993	are an essential feature of modern life, overseeing daily activities in transport, medicine, banking, retailing and advanced research in the Sciences and Humanities.
1993	Scientists study the principles involved in designing and implementing systems, and learn to produce efficient, reliable and cost-effective systems.
1993	Science has emerged as a well-defined discipline with a solid theoretical foundation.
1993	Science is a practical subject and, at Edinburgh, students are fortunate in having the opportunity to use systems ranging from single chip microprocessors to some of the world's highest performance parallel processing systems, with much of their work being carried out on a distributed system of UNIX-based workstations.
1993	There is an honours degree course in Science and joint honours courses in Science with Artificial Intelligence, Electronics, Management Science, Mathematics, Physics and Statistics.
1993	The above joint degree courses lead to a BSc, apart from Science and Electronics which leads to a BEng.
1993	The single honours degree in Science can be taken as a BSc or a BEng, depending on the student's wishes.
1993	Graduates with a good Science degree are very much sought after, and Edinburgh graduates particularly so.
1993	The first year lays the foundations while more advanced topics such as physical electronics, electromagnetic theory, analogue and digital circuits, instrumentation, systems, communications, electrical machines and power systems are covered in second and third year.
1993	There are well established joint degrees in Electronics and Physics, Science and Electronics, and Electrical and Mechanical Engineering.
1993	Electronics and electrical machines are included as important fields of study and the ever-increasing importance of computing is recognised by the provision of courses on applications in engineering and the integration of computing into design and laboratory projects.
1993	The following joint degree courses are available: Science and Electronics, Electronics and Physics, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Electronics with Business Studies, all leading to the BEng degree.
1993	Thus, Geography can be combined with either basic sciences (eg Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics) or with ‘applied’ sciences (eg Ecology, Environmental Chemistry, Geology, Geophysics, Meteorology, Oceanography), or with ‘technological’sciences (eg Artificial Intelligence, Science, Information Systems) or with a mixture of different sciences in a stimulating and attractive degree programme, in which environmental issues are prominent.
1993	The remaining two thirds may be made up from a combination of full or half courses in many subject areas, for example chemistry, physics, maths, oceanography, geophysics, geographical sciences, meteorology, archaeology, astronomy, sciences, psychology, science studies, economics, arts subjects, languages, law, etc.
1993	Extensive use of the in project work opens up the further possibility of a computer-oriented career.
1993	The remaining two thirds is made up of whole or half courses in chemistry, geography, biology, oceanography, global environmental processes, environmental chemistry, ecology, meteorology, archaeology, sciences, etc.
1993	The increasing ability of desk-top to perform sophisticated mathematical manipulations, in addition to massive calculations, is rapidly extending the applicability of mathematical techniques.
1993	The basic mathematics degree in the Science and Engineering Faculty is the BSc in Mathematics; there are also joint degrees with Artificial Intelligence, Business Studies, Science, Physics or Statistics.
1993	In the first two years, the BSc Mathematics curriculum includes pure mathematics (calculus, analysis, algebra and geometry) and applied mathematics in the broad sense (numerical methods, optimisation, programming, probability and statistics as well as the traditional topics of vectors and mechanics).
1993	Transfer to other degrees such as Physics or Science is also possible.
1993	Note that Business Studies, Science, Physics or Statistics can be studied for one or two years in the curriculum for BSc Mathematics, so that a joint honours course is not the only way to acquire some knowledge of these subjects.
1993	The methods used in statistics depend on many branches of mathematics and their implementation requires extensive use of but the subject has its own logical concepts and theory.
1993	The undergraduate teaching in statistics is designed to provide a balanced course in joint honours in Mathematics and Statistics and in Science and Statistics.
1993	All the courses attempt to balance theory and application and students are introduced to the use of statistical packages in a practical context.
1993	These are followed up by a short course on simulation in Physics for all students in third year.
1993	In the first and second year, mainstream Physics students are free to choose an outside course from other faculties but the student of Mathematical Physics must undertake further study in mathematics and theoretical physics; Computational Physics students take a first-level course in Science.
1993	There are substantial physics contributions to several honours degree courses in inter-disciplinary fields Astrophysics, Chemical Physics, Science and Physics, Electronics and Physics, Geophysics and Mathematics and Physics.
1993	The third and fourth year courses are a mixture of thematic units, units on various aspects of theory, method and practice (including, for example, graphical and applications, and underwater archaeology), and a rich variety of specialised courses on particular periods or regions.
1993	If you choose a joint honours degree, you will commence your university study of the joint subject; joint degrees are available with Mathematics, French, Accountancy, Spanish, Arabic, Science, Engineering, Psychology, German, Economics, Italian, and Law.
1993	If you choose one of the joint degrees, you couple a smaller amount of business studies with an approximately equal amount of law, accounting, economics, mathematics, science, engineering or a European language.
1993	If they wish, students can do an optional dissertation, and pick up word-processing and other skills.
1993	Instruction is provided in research methods and analysis from first year; and training is provided in the use of .
1993	Sunil's toy turned out to be a lap-top .
1993	‘I find it almost impossible to imagine any frequenter of this club using a lap-top .
1993	It's also hard to believe that someone who would use a lap-top would forget where he left it.’
1993	‘But don't you think Sunil might have been in danger had it been realised that he had the run of the Admiral's ?’
1993	They retired behind the erotic-drawings cabinet and Gooseneck tore open the cardboard to reveal a lap-top .
1990	We're checking it with the Police National .
1990	It had a special phone number, was equipped with a and was permanently manned by a PC or a WPC.
1990	Patrick had dumped his things in the Glory Hole, a spare room that served as a space for the , the washing-machine and Richie's permanent stockpot.
1990	Your must be on the blink.
1990	The COBRA man's told him the whereabouts of every Lord-Lieutenant and Chief Constable in Great Britain.
1990	By this stage the Committee for Science and Technology had twelve subject boards, and was approving courses in new subject and interdisciplinary areas, many  described as of‘considerable industrial importance’— including for the first time instrumentation and control engineering, and systems engineering.
1990	The special features of Hatfield were its strong tradition of integrating general studies within technological studies, and of synthesis of academic studies in engineering, through the development of design and creative talents; ‘meaningful research’, particularly in certain fields of chemistry; close integration with industry in relation to student projects, and the inclusion of and information studies in undergraduate courses.
1990	The Polytechnic would seek to integrate library and facilities, recruit women students in all subjects, develop links with particular overseas regions, focus on retraining courses and exploit its geographical position to develop new kinds of extra-mural studies.
1990	It was building  on its strengths in aeronautical engineering and other areas, and had developed one of the country's first degree courses in science.
1990	It did not diminish its established commitments, but the impression gained from the annual reports for the early 1970s is that the CNAA was preoccupied with the validation of an ever expanding number of newly-associated institutions and a widening range of subjects — from Chinese studies to technology, from housing studies to occupational hygiene.
1990	technology was giving rise to a variety of innovative developments, and the field was in general pioneered by the CNAA and its institutions before the universities took up the challenge.
1990	The Hatfield  Polytechnic was moving towards instruction for all students because, said Norman Lindop in 1971, ‘the is a part of modern culture’, and in 1970 Weekly was drawing attention to the CNAA's contribution to availability in Scotland.
1990	In 1977 the Council arranged the conference on Planning for  Academic Diversification in Higher Education, a meeting to discuss the need for and design of undergraduate courses in transport studies, a seminar to discuss the problems of including art and design in courses which contained other subjects, and a conference on mathematical education — including particularly mathematics and studies at the postgraduate level.
1990	It lobbied the Secretary of State, gave evidence to Parliamentary Select Committees, debated everything from student wastage rates to student militancy, from application forms to provision.
1990	The unit is on the verge of ‘complete collapse’, the library is inadequate and the relationship with the local authority is bad.
1991	Whatever Massim's cousin Sunil did for a living, he did it from an old-fashioned headmaster's desk and a small personal .
1991	There were about half a dozen tax manuals, some books, a large-scale London A to Z and a copy of Duke Ellington's book, Music is my Mistress.
1991	Naturally, nobody gave us a second look and I had the traffic lights co-ordinated by so that we stopped near you just as Sergeant Plod, with perfect timing, gave you an excuse to mace him.
1988	Just out of curiosity, a bright young DC ran the names of some of the witnesses through the Sealink this morning.
1988	He hasn't shown up on any  of the ferry company , or any of the airline ones, for that matter.
1993	Tom Holdfast was sitting in his office before a screen.
1993	Holdfast swung back to his and pressed the button.
1993	It was spread with paper and piles of accounts, with desktop calculators at both their places, both switched on.
1989	The political branch have installed a hot line direct to the Ministry's central in Rome and even so they cant keep up.
1989	‘Those are codes.’
1989	‘Since when have we had a ?’
1989	You see, this report isn't meant to be read, it's meant to be put into the .’
1989	‘But there is no .’
1989	All the files from us, the Carabinieri, the Finance people, everything, is going to go straight into the .
1989	With the old method it would take you hours looking through files, but with the you just push a button and it tells you right away.
1989	So they were getting a , were they?
1989	And just to make sure that everything was fair and above-board, the , like the facilities for tapping phones, would be located at the law courts, safely out of the hands of the police.
1989	‘The won't accept it.
1993	‘No, I mean like ‘life's a great big virtual-reality game being played with real people’.’
1993	The genius who turned life on Earth into a virtual-reality game for the Gods.
1993	Presley City, all of it, is some kind of big game.
1991	And this is precisely the conclusion that Evans reaches in his more recent work on the industries of Brazil and South Korea (Evans and Bastos Tigre, 1989).
1991	The motor of this growth has been the rapid spread of corporate computerization (and also personal  among the better off) and personal receivers, the relative prices of which have been reduced substantially over time.
1991	Electronic communications, and especially to links, not only give the possibility of extra-efficient operations to TNCs within the network, but also give increasing competitive advantage over those outside.
1991	Global use of data flows — particularly through transnational corporations — is thus likely to have an impact on the synchronization of techniques (e.g. via the standardization of equipment), symbols (e.g. through the use of the universal language) and social relations (e.g. through the organisation of industrial production and job patterns).
1991	Technological developments, in particular aided design and manufacturing (CAD/CAM), introduce further complexities.
1991	Here, information on current consumer preferences can be transmitted by almost instantaneously from the marketplace to the factory, wherever it might be, and even design modifications or completely new designs can be electronically fed into CAD/  CAM equipment in the factory for instant production.
1993	He had used the police network and discovered his wife had volunteered for nursing duty.
1993	You checked her whereabouts on the .’
1993	Although there had been no evidence on their of the shapechangers' craft being on the planet, it had been monitored heading towards this unwelcoming world.
1993	He had checked on the but couldn't find any other link between the two men.
1993	He went into the room and walked past the rows of documentation too secret to be placed on disc.
1993	‘I don't like ,’ ranted the Doctor.
1993	‘We're imprisoned at the moment by a defence programme.’
1993	‘A is like a mechanical human brain which carries out various specific operations.
1993	Blake looked at the exasperated face of the Doctor,'…but this can predict what I'm going to do.
0000	A total of 180 one second frames were taken and stored on an online .
0000	Data analysis was performed on a Macintosh LC using the Mann Whitney U test and Student's t test (StatWorks).
0000	Regression coefficients and their standard error were calculated with a CYBER 855 for those variables which entered and remained in the regression equation.
0000	Since 1980, tomography of the thorax and upper abdomen and ultrasouns examination of the neck have been carried out in order to identify abnormal lymph nodes, which are then subjected to cytological examination.
0000	The integration system was a PU3202 utilising PU6000 software (Phillips Scientific).
0000	The tests were done using the ProSciCard Program (Pro Science GmbH, Linde, FRG) whereby a standard electrocardiograph (ECG) recording was amplified by an ECG preamplifier and fed to a Pro Science laboratory .
0000	Breathing rhythm was established by the movement of a bar graph displayed on the screen.
0000	Timing was controlled for by optical and acustical signals.
0000	Recent reports have advocated either ultrasonography or tomography.
0000	image acquisition began at the onset of the injection.
0000	Images were acquired onto a 64×64 word matrix at a rate of 0.5 seconds/image for 100 seconds and stored on an A 2 system for subsequent analysis (Medical Data Systems, Ann Arbor, MI, USA).
0000	Further evauation of radionuclide angiography in comparison with other non-invasive methods (ultrasound, tomography, and nuclear magnetic resonance) and conventional arterial portography merits consideration.
0000	Pressure was transmitted to tranducers (Statham P231A, Statham Instruments, Oxnard, CA) and recorded on a rectilinear recorder (Beckman R611, Beckman Instruments, Inc, Fullerton, CA) and on a personal system.
1992	The use of dissolution agents such as methyl- t -butylether or similar substances with or without controlled pumps have similar problems to those encountered in this study.
1992	Stored currents were low pass filtered (-3 dB, 4-pole Butterworth) at 1 kHz and loaded into memory (IBM PC 286-XT, sampling frequency 4 kHz) through a Labmaster TL1 interface and TM40 A/D converter (Axon Instruments, Foster City, Ca, USA).
1992	By a process of subtraction a time activity curve representing small intestinal transit was also obtained.
1992	Pressure tracings were analysed manually according to accepted criteria and by a specific program.
1992	The various characteristics of the individual waves were analysed by the program.
1992	This was displayed and stored on an IBM compatible (PC 1640, Amstrad Inc).
1992	No support staff were required because the generates its own report, and since most reports were sent by internal mail, administrative costs were minimal.
1992	Abdominal scintigrams were obtained at one to four hours and 20 hours after injection of the labelled cells, to localise the site and extent of disease using an IGE 400 AT gamma camera with a STAR at the appropriate channel settings.
1992	Binding data were analysed and curves fitted using the GraphPAD Inplot programme (San Diego, CA, USA).
1992	Univariate survival analysis was performed with the BMDP 1L program by the life table method.
1992	Throughout the insertion procedure, pressure and pH were displayed continuously on a monitor for identification of the lower oesophageal sphincter.
1992	For analysis of acid reflux and oesophageal motility, a software program running on IBM compatible was used (GastroScan Version 3.0, Medical Instruments, CH-4502 Solothurn, Switzerland).
1992	Comparison of the results obtained by this commercially available program with those obtained by a previously described and validated program showed good correlation.
1992	The analysis of cell cycle activity was done by EASY 2 programme.
1992	analysis was applied to the data.
1992	The 9 9 m Tc and 1 1 3 m In images were recorded simultaneously, but stored separately on the for subsequent analysis.
1992	At the end of the study period, the information was transferred from the Memolog recorder into an Apple Macintosh for analysis.
1992	The data from the Memolog recorder were transferred to the for analysis.
1992	The specimens were then progressively dehydrated in an ascending ethanol series, infiltrated with epon, sectioned at 1 µm in an OMU-3 ultramicrotome, and stained with toluidine blue for morphometric analysis in the .
1992	ASSISTED MORPHOMETRIC ANALYSIS
1992	The data were off loaded to a (Amstrad PC1640, IBM-compatible) and processed using the Esophagram software (Gastrosoft Ltd, USA).
1992	The data was analysed on the with Minitab 7.1.
1992	For each patient taking mesalazine a matched patient taking sulphasalazine was also selected.
1992	Patients with CLO who were under surveilance were identified on the Royal Liverpool Hospital and Broadgreen Hospital endoscopy unit .
1992	Cochran, Mantel Haenzel statistics were used to test the association between variables (SAS package on an IBM ).
1992	In the single one year period (1989) when records were available a total of 1662 children provided stools for microbiological examination and 27 (1.6%) had cryptosporidiosis.
1992	Quantication of disease activity in Crohn's disease by analysis of Tc-99m hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) labelled leucocyte images
1992	We have therefore developed a based technique for the quantification of bowel uptake and have applied it to images of the distribution of Tc-99m HMPAO lavelled leucocytes.
1992	The based analysis of bowel images described in this paper meets most of the criteria for an ideal activity marker activity in Crohn's disease.
1992	In summary, the based analysis of bowel images obtained from patients with Crohn's disease meets most of the criteria for an ideal marker of disease activity.
1992	The statistical analysis were performed by Statistical Analysis System package 4.10 (SAS Institute Inc).
1992	Abdominal scintigrams were obtained 1–4 hours (early) and 20 hours (late) after injection of the labelled cells, using an IGE 400 AT γ camera with a Star at the appropriate channel settings.
1992	After amplification and passage through an analogue low pass filter (Gould Electronics, time constant 3.2 seconds, cut off slope 6 dB/octave) to remove high frequencies originating from cardiac electrical activity, the signal was digitalised at a frequency of 1 Hz using an analogue to digital convertor (Data Translation 2801A) and recorded on the hard disk of a desktop personal (Zenith Data Systems Z248) for later off line analysis.
1992	Modular computerised algorithms for data capture, digital conditioning of the captured signal, division into subsections, and frequency analysis (PC-Dats, Prosig Consultants) were used.
1992	The advent of powerful desktop and the introduction of the technique of running spectal analysis by Van der Schee has allowed objective analysis of the recorded signals, superceding the use of visual analysis techniques.
1992	Long term projects include support to the Aberdeen Cyrenians who help homeless young people, a Young Artists Competition run in conjunction with Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, and the DESK project which educates children in the use of desktop publishing and provides equipment to winning schools.
1993	We could promote training for the D A Os enabling a move to as branch records, making branch administration efficient and streamlined.
1993	In the past, Congress, personnel departments and management have been in the privileged position of using technology.
1993	Most of these are a designed programs which effectively help our counterparts reinforce their position concerning our members, their conditions and their output.
1993	Firstly, the primary objective for us as a trade union must to be ensure G M B activists, shop stewards and officials all have access to training and literacy.
1993	What I'd also like to say is I think it's e ecol erm, ecologically correct as well for us to move into literacy and designed programs.
1993	Both these concepts, literacy and language training are ways of attacking present pessimism and mobilizing the will within our movement.
1993	Well and we have seen one  response for people now making  Mill that is that his objections are not being finessed by technology, they don't want to get back into that type of argument, because this is really not the most important argument against direct democracy.
1992	I mean erm  you know erm  when I go to the London  Group erm we all know that erm actually er  there's a kind of, there's an inner feeling you know well we've got the right , we, we're the you know, we, we believe  computing and we, we're very sorry  you know we're erm  we may not actively despise them, but we, we're sorry that they have to bother with such an awful operating system and everything else.
1992	I've in fact printed out a short extract from my new book erm which illustrates this, albeit using a program, and you can take a copy of that away with you.
1992	It would take too long to get the up and do it for you, but erm you can take that away with you if, if you like, that just makes the same points I've been making now, but using a simulator.
1992	It probably evolved because if you do simulations erm you find out that one of the stable equilibria to which er differing or same size sex cells leads is one with a very large cell and one with a very small cell.
1993	I have got you a , one of these  would you like one of those?
1993	The thing is, the school has just launched a, a new programme to lend portable to graduate students, okay?
1993	Erm, I guess now in fact, erm er, last few years is all er, is all er entered in data on .
1993	Er, my client has been in business at the u his own firm supplying software in a specialized market, that is stock control systems for clubs, pubs and restaurants.
1993	Returning about tea time, he'd then gone out once more to deliver some disks for another project he was running in Heanor.
1986	I think er  through the figures that he was producing we all realized something was up and various flying around the place you know, and the figures produced by them.
1986	Well, everyone seemed to think that I knew what I was doing with a , so the shifts, the picket shifts were left up to me, any facts and figures needed, databases,addresses were left up to me.
1993	Gla go ge gar ge ga has the gone mad?
1993	Yeah I'm sorry but the 's gone mad.
1989	She confirmed my suspicions that the majority of office in London contain nothing more vital than the personal cv's of thousands of job-hunting junior staff.
1989	God knows what had possessed me to put my proper name on my real driving licence, but once it goes into the DVLC , it stays.
1989	‘And I don't understand how the registration papers, which we so carefully prised out of the Department of Transport's in Swansea or some other Godforsaken place, and your driving licence both have an address in Southwark.
1992	software
1987	John Beckett and Trevor Foulds have recently used a to analyse the 1851 and 1861 census returns for the Nottinghamshire open field village of Laxton.
1987	In ‘Beyond the Micro: Laxton, The and Social Change Over Time’, published in The Local Historian, volume 16, no. 8 (1985), pp. 451–6, they remark on the contrast between a high turnover of individuals in the village and an underlying stability of households.
1993	can be identically stored within the
1993	In order to cope with a wide variety of programming languages, data definition languages, and , the module header should be formatted as one comment (or a series of comments) in the language of the module.
1993	IS-DEPENDENT-ON usually the operating system and type
1993	This will normally be manufacturer's software, device handlers etc.
1993	It is recommended that entries for this field be taken from a restricted set defined by the Project Manager; e.g. an entry may be the , the operating system and the version of the operating system in use (for example, VAX 11/785 VMS V5.2).
1993	As the people from whom paper SPRs originate may range from software developers with an intimate knowledge of the software to users with only a rudimentary understanding of , it is advisable to route incoming SPRs through a single responsible authority, or one per project, associated with the LIFESPAN manager.
1993	However, it is much more difficult to ensure that media which are remote from a are still intact and safe.
1993	If more than one LIFESPAN system is running simultaneously on a it will be necessary for each one to operate its own independent offline system using different media items.
1993	The System Manager is the person responsible for the day-to-day running of the on which LIFESPAN is to be used, including the installation of software, system startup/shutdown etc.
1993	The LIFESPAN Manager is responsible for the organisation of a particular LIFESPAN system on the , assigning charge codes, controlling availability of the LIFESPAN facilities etc.
1993	It assumes a detailed knowledge of the system being used.
1993	LIFESPAN can also be used for a wide range of applications involving the handling of documentation files not necessarily concerned with software such as word processing.
1993	The simplest functional view of LIFESPAN is as a carefully controlled software storage system into which software for most (written in any language) can be entered, and which will then serve as the sole source of issuable software.
1993	As a result, LIFESPAN can be used to control software production and issue for a range of different : the only requirement is some form of physical communication with the hosting the LIFESPAN system — preferably over a network, but quite feasibly by magnetic disk or tape.
1993	At installation time, LIFESPAN must be tailored to suit the resources of the host .
1993	It is possible for several separate LIFESPAN systems to be established on the same configuration, each with its own allocation of resources, perhaps for contractual reasons.
1993	Can be identically stored within the
1993	If the baseline is for the purpose of a critical design review of a game program, then the assessor might only check that the modules are unambiguous and complete.
1993	There could be a communications system linking some users via a satellite, or equally well, simply a program running on the same as itself.
1993	Software design and production activities are carried out externally to LIFESPAN and will normally be performed in a number of separate user accounts allocated for that purpose; possibly on a separate .
1993	Note that LIFESPAN can usually store and retrieve software for foreign systems, though transfers to and from the user work space that LIFESPAN can address have to be carried out by the LIFESPAN user.
1993	However, it must be stressed that illegal access to the LIFESPAN work space is only ever possible as a result of a failure in the general security procedures on the concerned.
1993	There are a range of job titles in use in most organisations, some inherent in design and production and some specific to the requirements of configuration control and operation.
1993	System Manager
1993	The system manager has no specific LIFESPAN privileges, but does have access privileges to the system(s) on which LIFESPAN runs.
1993	He is responsible for the day-to-day running of the system, installing new software and setting up the accounts on which LIFESPAN users will do most of their work.
1993	System Operator
1993	Intended audience LIFESPAN managers and system managers.
1993	Intended audience LIFESPAN managers, system managers and system operators.
1993	The LIFESPAN Manager is responsible for the organisation of a particular LIFESPAN system on the , assigning charge codes, controlling availability of the LIFESPAN facilities etc.
1993	You may choose to do this for safety reasons, since if both copies are ruined simultaneously by a fire in the room, no amount of intelligent software can replace the material.
1993	Module images are produced in pages as in a listing, but are ordered and displayed differently according to the media type chosen, and the settings in the configuration file, as described later.
1993	the is busy servicing requests from other processes.
1993	If the is slow, the mail message should eventually appear and PI will then continue with its normal operation.
1993	This responsible user is likely to be a project leader handling the administration of funds and charges.
1993	Used for example to indicate the connection between two modules used on different for the same purpose.
1993	There are a range of job titles in use in most organisations, some inherent in design and production and some specific to the requirements of configuration control and operation.
1993	System Manager
1993	The system manager has no specific LIFESPAN privileges, but does have access privileges to the system(s) on which LIFESPAN runs.
1993	He is responsible for the day-to-day running of the system, installing new software and setting up the accounts on which LIFESPAN users will do most of their work.
1993	System Operator
1993	The system operator is normally involved only in the administrative side of LIFESPAN, carrying out tasks such as loading the offline media.
1993	The user may choose to do this for safety reasons, since if both copies are ruined simultaneously by a fire in the room, no amount of intelligent software can replace the material.
1991	Or you could live there, rig up your personal and play the Stock Exchange and the Bourse at the same time and then nip over to the West End for a show.’
1991	‘I'll ask the onboard .
1991	I am totally hostile so I wouldn't have known what to do with the damn thing.
1992	After that, the manager went through the procedure adopted: a telephone call to the reference number cited; verification of credit card; verification of driving licence; verification of home address (the last three usually completed within ten minutes or so on the International Information ); preparation, presentation, and signing of the contract (including appropriate insurance clauses); then, paperwork now completed, the car brought round to the outer forecourt, with an assistant to give the client a quick run-over of the controls, and to hand over the keys.
1993	The newspaper spoke of hidden station security cameras, faxed photographs, network identification , instant Press access to newsworthy material and the Edinburgh Mercury always being first with the news.
1989	stood above a keyboard.
1989	At ten o'clock he switched off his and put away his books.
1989	Shaw was a good organiser and internal collator, well versed in mystique.
1989	‘All these books…and a .
1989	A final glance around the room, the books, the charts, the , the filing system…
1989	On second thoughts, take Shaw and see what he can make of that thing.’
1989	‘Just one more thing: what exactly was Francis doing with his books, his filing system and his ?’
1989	By contrast, Shaw, communing with the and making a new friend, looked like one of those whiz-kids who, from their glass and concrete towers, manipulate the world's money markets.
1989	He used the to establish correlations.
1989	DS Shaw's , over in the corner, blank-faced and brooding, was being well fed on a mixed diet.
1989	More fodder for the if nothing else.
1989	A modern investigating officer secures his rear with print-out.
1992	Non-linear regression of the specific binding curve weighted by the inverse of the variance was performed using the Multifit programme on an Apple McIntosh .
1992	The Fourier transform times depend on the used, but in our case can take around 100 ms.
1992	The two dimensional images were displayed at the time of acquisition and simultaneously stored into hard disc memory by an array processor.
1992	Each image occupied 16 Kbytes of storage, thus for a three hour study, a total of 57.6 Mbytes was required.
1992	With more efficient magnetic gradient coils and more sophisticated, cost effective power, echo planar imaging will be an available option on most conventional MRI scanners in the next couple of years.
1992	The overall data were examined using the SPSS/ PC programme on an IBM PS2 personal .
1992	aided data analysis of labelled mucosa allows static proliferative indices to be estimated, including the crypt labelling index (LI), the peak labelling position, the distribution of labelled cells and indirectly the crypt growth fraction.
1992	We have adapted a proprietary based data analysis programme for intestinal mucosa to study and assess the distribution of S phase cells and to estimate the crypt labelling index in surgical gastric mucosal biopsy specimens from various anatomical sites.
1992	Position one was chosen as the first cell in the vertical column at the crypt orifice (Fig 2) as a reference point for the programme.
1992	The analogue signal was stored in digitised form on a hard drive.
1992	Ileal motility was measured by integrating the area under the pressure-time curve, during 1 minute periods, using software.
1992	Dietary intake was assessed by means of five day weighed surveys (Soelne digital scales) and analysed using McCance and Widdowson's: The Composition of Foods and a dietary analysis program (Microdiet, Salford University).
1992	The results were analysed both visually and by .
1992	These images were stored on video tape and processed by a MS-DOS , using a video grabber, and processing software (IBAS, Kontron GmbH, Munich, Germany).
1992	Data were then transferred and displayed on a by means of specially designed software (Aspen Medical).
1992	This was first accomplished with the manometric apparatus in position and with the visual help of the screen.
1992	All computations were on a DEC System 5000 running Ultrix Version 4.1, Research Computing, The Hospital for Sick Children.
1992	Dose-response curves were constructed by weighted least squares regression analysis of the data on a third order polynomial model using a program (Sigmaplot, Jandel Scientific, Corte Madera, Ca, USA).
1992	At the end of the recording, pH data were transferred to a for analysis.
1992	All the statistical tests were performed by a using SPSS-X software.
1993	Since then, epidemiological methods have advanced, and ease of access to has streamlined (certainly) and refined (seemingly) the collection, analysis, and presentation of data.
1993	Completed forms were checked manually by the supervisors, before independent data entry into by two clerks.
1993	Regular analyses of the results reported by each fieldworker were done to identify workers whose results differed substantially from those of their colleagues; they were given extra supervision and, where necessary, retraining.
1993	All data entry and processing were done in the study headquarters in Navrongo with IBM PS/2 and dBase III+ software.
1993	We thank all the VAST field, laboratory, centre, and administrative staff, especially Mr Martin Adjuik, Mr Azumah Amidini, Mr J Kwabena Badu, Ms Margaret Gyapong, Mr Eric Kasise, Mr Ogyebre Owusu-Agyei, and Mr David Pendlebury; the population of Kassena-Nankana District and their leaders; the Regional and District Administration and Health Services; Dr Moses Adibo and Dr Sam Adjei,(Ministry of Health of Ghana) for support and encouragement; Prof Patrick Vaughan and other colleagues at the LSHTM for support and advice; Ms Nina Saroi for administrative and secretarial support in London; Dr Sandra Saenz de Tejada and the WHO-ARI Programme for preliminary study of local concepts and terminology of illness; Ms Gilly Maude for the randomisation and interim analysis; Ms Sharon Huttly, Mr Ben Amenuvegbe, and the late Mr Steve Tulloch for helping to design the data management system; Dr Hazel Inskip and Mr Jerry Wheeler for advice on data processing; Ms Penny Fennell for help with the training of the computing and secretarial staff; Ms Rebecca Abbott and Dr Suzanne Filteau (Institute of Child Health, London) for measuring serum retinol; Dr Andy Hall for helping to code the cause of death questionnaires; and the members of the data monitoring committee for reviewing the interim results.
1993	The personal provides a window through which datasets can be explored for hidden and unexpected relations.
1993	offer a host of statistical and graphical temptations.
1993	Cyrillic is a new pedigree-drawing program that runs, not on an abacus, but on Windows, the front-end.
1993	However, the authors qualify their findings by pointing out that the group of exposed women was, in fact, only presumed to have been exposed since they had been selected by a matching of topical tretinoin prescriptions to pregnant women 3–4 months after their estimated dates of conception.
1990	It's a driven sound, shamelessly appropriating reggae, house, rap, African sounds, dub — you name it, it's fair game for these cyberpunk magpies.
1990	Though many assembly jobs are unavoidably labour intensive, and automation are a vital part of the Peavey philosophy.
1990	One plant houses the company's IBM mainframe — one of the biggest in the state — and a CAD (computer-aided design) department has been fully operational for the last year.
1993	They use mediated communication via The Henley Extended Learning Programme — HELP — as part of the learning/ research process.
1993	In addition, mediated conferencing and other software facilities are available to improve Information Technology skills, together with a further optional learning module.
1993	Specially developed based material can also be used as part of the assessment process.
1993	The programme first ran in 1986 and current sponsoring organisations include many multinationals, each with their own distinctive features and corporate identity In addition, managers have the opportunity to become part of an international network linked through conferencing and meeting at selected workshops.
1993	Each is equipped with a range of audio visual aids, together with personal which are networked within the College environment.
1993	The seventeen syndicate rooms each have networked , OHPs, CCTV and photocopying facilities.
1993	The teaching facilities, syndicate and conference rooms all have Wang personal linked by a Local Area Network (LAN), giving access to a variety of software packages and Based Training, as well as electronic mail.
1993	The College links with the International Business Schools Users Group whose aims include making the use of IT more effective in business.
1993	The Henley Extended Learning Programme was originally developed to support the distance learning MBA students worldwide, as a communications and conferencing system.
1993	The Integrated Library System and CD-ROM products are available via the Local Area Network.
1992	The ability to use to sort, process and retrieve information and to present information in forms appropriate to a particular purpose and audience.
1992	We have set up a link through the NSA network, and are now able to send texts, questions, and supporting information direct to the school.
1993	The University Statistical Record (USR) provided files on three entry cohorts (1981, 1982, and 1983) and three leaver cohorts (1987,1988 and 1989) for all universities in the UK.
1992	(subscription and officer) is responsible for the maintenance of the Association's computerised membership records and the production of subscription notices, hospitality labels and so on.
1992	The HCIMA bibliography has been established over nearly 10 years, and the past seven years has been on a database.
1993	A lot of these jobs mean that you will have work to master as well.
1993	The yeoman is the administrative assistant to the food manager and is responsible for the keeping of all records and producing all reports of the department  the majority of which are carried out with the help of a .
1993	This was backed by developments in selling techniques, the growing use of equipment to improve efficiency, and the willingness to explore new business opportunities.
1993	Mass market properties are generally tied to the practical lobby, with heavy-traffic flooring and impersonal but efficient reception counters equipped with .
1993	How create the ultimate in customer care
1993	Hotel operators will already be familiar with the typewriter or personal keyboard; the latter and the screen-based console are the heart of the system, which has been designed to make operation as simple as possible.
1993	At this time, we had just put the finishing touches to some new software, designed specifically to serve the needs of small to medium sized hotels, which interfaces with any reasonably up to date PABX based telephone system, and IBM compatible equipment.
1993	Test handling: the automatically produces confirmation letters, key cards, invoices, mailshots, labels and the like.
1993	The keeps a record of many important facts and figures, including:
1993	It was during the 1980s that the hospitality industry started using the power of and communication technololgy.
1993	The demand from the hospitality industry was to integrate different systems and to continue the automation of the keycard concept.
1993	The mechanical card system does not require wiring, batteries or hook-ups.
1993	A portable can be taken to any room to interrogate the lock and produce a list of the last 100 events at that particular lock-set.
1993	The Verified Access system works together with the guest room system through the same check-in .
1993	By linking the system through a standard telephone wire, the management is able to control all operations from a centrally located .
1993	Each idea is fed into a and the results tracked, while staff improve leadership skills through team systems.
1993	Schmidt and associates (1979) used analysis of productivity in relation to test validity to evaluate the benefit of using a aptitude test to select programmers in the US Federal Government.
1993	What makes this system unique, is a batch of which control the ovens and ensure the food is cooked for the correct length of time and in the most ideal conditions.
1993	Instead, the control means that both meat and vegetables are as near perfect and succulent as possible while retaining correct levels of moisture.
1993	What it does ensure is that the chef has complete control over some of the most vital tools of his trade, with guidance as an important aid.
1993	Traditionally, people tend to equate technology with expense — the idea that if something is electronically controlled or operated using a system, then it will inevitably be more costly.
1993	Tunnel cookers are completely automatic and fully programmable using either manual or controlled systems.
1993	The Enterprise Centre co-ordinated the Employer Contacts Group a group of key individuals from the Industrial Liaison Office, the Principal's Office, the Development Office and Napier Business School, and the University's Unit, to develop an employer contacts database.
1993	The database — built in the first instance on information provided by the Industrial Liaison office, the Principal's Office, Napier University Ventures Ltd, the Development Office and the Enterprise Centre — became generally available on the University network in March 1993.
1986	Further training : I have to confess to feeling a bit stumped by this.
1980	Alternatively if anyone is lost for words or ideas and needs help, Pat will be happy to let you have a copy of what will be on the .
1988	However, advances in speech science and science since the ARPA project had encouraged the belief that front-end processing could be substantially improved.
1993	IBM's market was always the big mainframe — but that is a shrinking portion of the industry now, and one even the Japanese are beginning to penetrate.
1993	Today it is one of the best automated factories in the world, with computer-controlled parts arriving at the right instant at each work station to churn out reliable personal (‘PCs’) for a market that is still growing.
1993	Today, whether the is large or small, people are buying solutions to problems, in which the is a minor aspect.
1993	In a ‘market driven’ world the is just a bit of the machinery, the engine, as it were, but not the car.
1993	In a world where few companies have been good users, IBM's increasing tendency to practise what it preaches has helped maintain its advantage.
1993	In the early 80s, for example, IBM decided it needed to use its own systems better to cut administration costs, make optimum use of network and investments, and create a basis for future developments.
1993	An ex-IBMer on a British Rail sleeper recently complained he could put his VISA card into a machine somewhere 35,000 feet up, and put his in-bleeper to the phone mouthpiece, and it would automatically dial up his E-mail and give him his messages.
1993	IBM insiders get their equipment cheaper than customers who are sold new , but the insiders depend on older machines — proving once again that it's the management and training , not the technology, that makes the difference between a winning system and a white elephant.
1993	new systems recently implemented
1993	Some tax can be saved by using a service company owned by the partnership which then charges a fee to the partnership for the rendering of non-legal services, for example administrative and services.
1993	AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
1993	software and copyright
1993	Copyright protection, however, does not extend to ephemeral things such as skeletal plots for novels or ideas for programs unless and until they are recorded in some form or another and, even then, it is the ideas as expressed which are protected, not the underlying concepts.
1993	A literal copy of a program infringes copyright if made without the consent of the copyright owner.
1993	However, copying is not necessarily limited to duplication of substantial parts and it is possible to copy a program in a wider sense.
1993	For example, the structure, flow and sequence of events expressed in a program may be copied and, if a different programming language is used, the listing of the second program will look dissimilar to the listing of the first program.
1993	This question is of such fundamental importance because, if answered in the negative, copyright protection for programs would be considerably weakened.
1993	This has not proved easy and the following trilogy of United States cases give an indication of the development of tests which may be applicable in the United Kingdom (United States law has no binding effect on the United Kingdom courts but it may be of persuasive authority, particularly in the field of technology).
1993	The same person was involved in the development of each program but they were written in different languages, the first was written in EDL and the second, attempting to infiltrate the micro-computer market, was written in BASIC.
1993	(In United Kingdom law, as we have seen, a translation of a program from one language to another infringes copyright as an adaptation.)
1993	In this case the structures of the two programs were similar, the programs had a similar look and feel even though written in different programming languages and this, coupled with the fact that the same person had been involved in the two programs, raised a strong presumption that there had been copying and, hence, an infringement of copyright.
1993	In the "Pac-Man" games the maze and dots were deemed to be idea, being necessarily dictated by the program function, but the "Pac-Man" and "ghost monsters" characters were considered to be expression as different graphical representations could have been used.
1993	Nevertheless, in a major reversal of policy, the "look and feel" test in Whelan v Jaslow has been strongly disapproved of in the United States Court of Appeals, 2nd circuit, in the case of Associates International Inc. v Altai (1992).
1993	The defendant had produced a program called "Oscar" , a job scheduling program for controlling the order in which tasks are  carried out by a .
1993	Will copyright law be developed by the courts to prevent the marketing of "lookalike" programs?
1993	Obviously, if a company makes a new type of program which proves to be very successful, other companies will want to bring out their own versions of that type of program in order to gain a share in the market created or stimulated by the first program.
1993	Zenith's knowledge of Acme's program is no more than a competent user would achieve — possible infringement of copyright because the structure of Zenith's program is determined by Zenith's familiarity with the structure of Acme's program which Zenith copies indirectly, although the Associates test, discussed above, might reduce protection.
1993	Zenith disassembles Acme's program and re-writes parts of it to make its program, perhaps using a different language — definite infringement of copyright (the act of disassembly itself will constitute an infringement of copyright).
1993	In terms of writing software, a program to automate an existing manual process will probably not be considered a trade secret.
1993	It is possible to infringe copyright by subconsciously copying a work, although this is probably more relevant to the music industry than the industry.
1993	There is even a case for deliberately making elements in a program (including non-literal elements) different to the equivalent part of competing programs if this does not compromise the functionality, usability and attractiveness of the program.
1993	Even if copyright protection of programs is developed by the courts to become stronger, the Act does contain safeguards.
1993	By section 144(1), as a result of a report of the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, the Secretary of State may grant a licence as of right if the public interest would be prejudiced; for example, if the owner of the copyright in a unique program refuses to grant licences on reasonable terms.
1993	So, if a company has a virtual monopoly in a particular type of system, charges an exorbitant price for it and the Commission prepares a report to the effect that this situation is against the public interest, anyone will be able to apply for a compulsory licence to use the software.
1993	By section 66 of the Act, the Secretary of State may also order that rentals of programs are to be treated as being licensed by the copyright owner subject to payment of a reasonable royalty.
1993	It is unlikely that either provision will be needed but the fact that they exist may help to prevent undesirable practices developing with respect to software.
1993	When it was decided to classify programs as literary works for copyright purposes, the usual exceptions to copyright infringement applied.
1993	In order to provide for uniform protection of programs throughout the European Community, a Council Directive on the legal protection of programs was published in 1991 (91/250/EEC).
1993	However, because some aspects of United Kingdom law were somewhat vague and ill-defined (for example, the meaning of fair-dealing) it was decided to tighten up some of the exceptions to copyright infringement, the necessary changes to the 1988 Act being made by the Copyright (Programs) Regulations 1992.
1993	Three particular issues were addressed: the right, under certain circumstances, to "decompile" an existing program a right to take necessary back-up copies a right to copy and adapt including for error correction.
1993	This might apply to code used by "hackers" to penetrate systems because publication would assist managers of installations in their attempts to combat hacking.
1993	Decompilation of programs
1993	"Decompilation" is used in a wide sense and defined in section 50B as converting a copy of a program expressed in a low-level language into a version expressed in a higher-level language and extends to copying incidental to such conversion.
1993	In other words, it is permissible for a lawful user to decompile or disassemble a program to determine its interfaces if this is a necessary step in creating a new program which will interoperate (interact) with that or some other program.
1993	The Act, as amended, attempts to deal with this situation by making the use or supply of the information for any other objective, or in the development, production or marketing of any program substantially similar in its expression to the original program, an infringement of copyright (s.50B(2)).
1993	Back-up copies of programs
1993	It is essential that back-up copies of programs are made.
1993	A back-up copy will be needed if the original copy of the program becomes damaged or corrupted in any way.
1993	The original may become contaminated with a  "virus" .
1993	If a program has been obtained for use in a commercial environment, whether it be a word processing package, accounts system or spreadsheet, the chances are that the original will fail at the worst possible moment.
1993	The Act, as amended, makes specific provision for the making of back-up copies of programs.
1993	Before the amendments made by the Copyright (Programs) Regulations 1992, there was no such provision although the courts may have been prepared to imply an appropriate term into a software licence where the making of a back-up copy was reasonably necessary to the use of the program in question.
1993	Section 50A states that copyright is not infringed by a lawful user making an additional copy of a program for back-up purposes if doing so is necessary to the lawful use.
1993	Acme uses WORDY and makes two copies of it, one for back-up and one for use on another .
1993	Two years later, Acme decides to obtain some new and a more powerful word processing program.
1993	By section 50C, a lawful user is permitted to copy or adapt a program providing that it is necessary for his lawful use and not prohibited by the agreement regulating the use (for example, a licence agreement).
1993	For example, if disassembling a program in order to correct errors is necessary to the lawful use and there are no express terms prohibiting this, then it can be done without infringing copyright.
1993	Section 296A(1) also makes any term or condition in an agreement void in so far as it purports to prohibit or restrict the use of any device or means to observe, study or test the functioning of a program in order to understand the ideas and principles underlying any element of the program.
1993	It would, for example, excuse the form of reverse engineering used in the Dyason v Autodesk case (measuring the electrical signals passing between the dongle and the program).
1993	This raises the following questions: who is an employee? what is the position regarding freelance programmers and consultants? what is the meaning of "in the course of employment" ?
1993	The question of ownership of programs written by freelance staff will be considered first.
1993	In many cases, freelance staff, hired to perform a particular task such as writing or modifying a specific program, will be deemed to be self-employed.
1993	For example, if an employee writes a program to help with his work but he is not employed as a programmer, his job is not to write programs and an employer cannot necessarily assume that he owns the copyright in that particular program.
1993	A person employed as an accountant who writes a program to help with the production of financial accounts will own the copyright in that program if he wrote it in his own time, using his own equipment.
1993	If an employer is faced with the situation where an employee has, in his own time and using his own equipment, developed a useful program, then the employer should immediately try to reach agreement as regards questions of ownership and use of the programs with the employee concerned, rather than allowing the program to be used without such agreement.
1993	If an employee has produced a program outside the normal course of his duties, but has used his employer's equipment or done it during the hours of his employment, the ownership of copyright is more difficult to predict, although it is more likely that the employer will be treated as owner.
1993	Employers should consider the introduction of, or extension of, a "suggestions" scheme to include programs or systems written by staff who are not employed to do this, with effective rewards and suitable provisions as regards ultimate ownership.
1993	A program is written using a specific programming language.
1993	However, the exercise of rights in languages could seriously interfere with the licensing and distribution of programs and databases.
1993	The European Council Directive on the legal protection of programs recognizes that programming languages, at least to the extent that they comprise ideas and principles, should not be protected by copyright.
1993	The answer lies in the fact that, usually, the program, once written, can only be run in a if it is converted into object code whether temporarily, using an interpreter program, or permanently, using a compiler program.
1993	A 's instruction set represents a language at its most basic level and, at this level, it is nearest to idea and, when used to write small programs, it has been argued that there is a merger of idea and expression in which case protection will be denied.
1993	If a database is the result of a great deal of effort alone with little judgment in the design of the database or in the selection of material (for example, a telephone directory stored in a database or a directory of postcodes) it is debatable whether it will attract copyright protection.
1993	Database structure has been mentioned as potentially protectable but in Total Information Processing Systems Ltd. v Daman Ltd. [1992], it was held that the field and record specifications as expressed in the data division of a COBOL program were not protected because, in this form, the information did not form a substantial part of the program as a whole.
1993	It is submitted that this approach is wrong and that it would be better to consider the database structure as a form of expression in its own right and not as part of the program.
1993	It does not extend to any program used in the making or operation of the database, though the distinction between program and system for obtaining or presenting information will be difficult to draw, particularly in the context of fourth-generation language databases.
1993	Some programs are marketed in a form that makes them difficult to copy.
1993	A distinction must be made at this stage between things which can be used to make unauthorized copies of programs, but which also have legitimate uses (for example, with two disk drives and cassette players with twin tape decks) and things specifically designed to overcome copy-protection such as software to be used to copy other software which has been copy-protected.
1993	with dual disk drives and twin tape cassette machines are not caught by these provisions because they are not "specifically designed or adapted to circumvent copy-protection" .
1993	Similarly, normal copying programs which come with a operating system are within the law because they are designed to be used legitimately, to take back-up copies of programs and data files.
1993	Indeed, such programs will usually fail to copy programs which are copy-protected.
1993	On 19 February 1993, the High Court handed down an important decision in the case of John Richardson Ltd. v Flanders & Chemtech Ltd.
1993	The case is the first example of an English court directly applying the test in the United States case of Associates International Inc. v Altai (1992)(see page 26).
1993	In the Richardson case, both parties develop and market programs used by pharmacists for the purpose of producing labels for prescriptions and stock control.
1993	In 1982, the plaintiff developed a program for the Tandy .
1993	In 1983, the defendant joined the plaintiff's company as an employee to write an equivalent program, having the same look and feel, for the BBC .
1993	The defendant wrote the program in QuickBASIC for the IBM .
1993	In some respects, the decision strengthens copyright protection for programs.
1993	The Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 expressly recognizes that works produced by or with the aid of a are worthy of copyright protection.
1993	Random numbers selected by for a newspaper competition called "Millionaire of the Month" were held to be protected by copyright in Express Newspapers plc v Liverpool Daily Post & Echo plc [1985].
1993	Arguments that there was no human author and, consequently, the lists of numbers drawn by the were not protected by copyright were rejected by Whitford J. who said that such a claim was as silly as saying that a pen could be the author of a literary work.
1993	In works produced by or with the aid of a , human skill can be found either in the person who enters information into the to produce the output or in the work involved in writing the program used or a combination of both.
1993	Section 178 of the Act defines a work as "computer-generated" when it is generated by a in circumstances such that there is no human author of the work.
1993	This will generally mean that the person who has control of the will be the author of any computer-generated work.
1993	The approach taken in the Act can lead to difficulties because, in many cases of works produced with the aid of a , it will not be possible to say with any certainty whether the work has a human author.
1993	At one end of the spectrum a work will be produced using a as a tool, just as a writer uses a pen or a typewriter, whilst at the other end the will produce its works with little or no direct human effort.
1993	In order to consider this question  further, works which involve in their production will be categorized as follows: works created using a , works created by a , and intermediate works.
1993	In these cases "" means a programmed .
1993	WORKS CREATED USING A
1993	Examples of works which fall into this category are: documents produced using a word processing system; CAD (aided designs) such as plans for a house or a new car body panel; music written using a program designed to assist with the composition of the music (as opposed to a program designed to write music); and an accounts report produced using a spreadsheet program.
1993	In all these cases, the person operating the system is using the to achieve the results that he wishes to obtain.
1993	The programmed is merely a tool which allows the operator to use his creativity and imagination to the fullest extent and efficiency.
1993	That expertise may be applied directly or indirectly; for example, a person writing a report may draft it out on paper and then hand it to a word processor operator who enters it into the .
1993	The person who wrote the program used to assist in the creation of the types of works described above has no rights in the work because, although the programmer may control or influence the format of the finished work, he has no control or influence on the content.
1993	The fact that many works in this category may be produced directly on a before any other tangible form exists presents no serious problems because these works will exist, in terms of copyright protection, the instant they are recorded; that is, as soon as they are stored on a disk or printed out on paper.
1993	WORKS CREATED BY A
1993	Examples include: the automatic generation of weather forecasts by a communicating with satellites, the selection of lists of random numbers for a competition or for the Premium Bond draw, programs which produce artistic designs or music automatically, being based upon a set of rules built into the program, a program designed to simulate some particular environment, such as climate, monetary systems, battle scenarios, etc.
1993	Many of these systems operate with no human effort or skill apart from switching the equipment on and checking that there is sufficient paper in the printer or plotter and so on.
1993	The human operator has very little or no control over the format or content of the output produced by the .
1993	Therefore, if a business organization buys and installs equipment and software to produce such works, that business organization will be regarded as the author and, as a result, the first owner of the copyright in the work.
1993	Interestingly, and controversially, the Act appears to ignore the skill and expertise of the person or persons who wrote the program used to generate these works.
1993	It could be argued that the programmer whose skill lies behind the output should have some recognition of authorship.
1993	However, this could cause difficulties because a person obtaining a program would expect to own the copyright of anything produced using the program, and any provisions sharing the ownership of the copyright between the user and the programmer could result in an undesirable fetter on the subsequent use of information and reports generated by the .
1993	The owner of the copyright in the program, suddenly realizing that he has rights with respect to the output generated from using the program, might attempt to interfere with the subsequent use of that output in the hope that he will be able to negotiate a fee for his permission.
1993	After all, the argument that a list of numbers drawn at random by a programmed had no human author was rejected, as we have seen, in the Express Newspaper case.
1993	The approach adopted by the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act is a utilitarian one but it does not reflect the reality of the situation by failing to  recognize that all output is the result, albeit in many cases the indirect result, of human skill and effort.
1993	The practical difficulties resulting from this could be assuaged by raising a presumption that ownership of copyright would lie with the licensee, the ultimate user, of the program, subject to any agreement to the contrary.
1993	These works lie in the area between computer-generated works and works made using the programmed as a tool.
1993	The content of the output produced is the result of the skill and effort of the person using the and the skill and effort of the person who wrote the program and/or the person who produced any database used.
1993	A great deal of specialized software falls into this category where the skill required to produce the finished results is contained partly within the program, the remainder being provided by the user of the system.
1993	For example, consider a system designed to be used to estimate the cost of building work.
1993	The system itself will comprise a suite of programs, which include routines to provide analyses and breakdowns of the costs derived, and a database of standard prices, based on sets of resources and performances.
1993	As Figure 4 shows the resulting output has three sources of expertise, that of the programmer, of the persons responsible for developing the database of standard prices, and of the person using the system.
1993	In some cases, because all the persons involved are employees of the company   developing and using the software, there will be little difficulty, but if outsiders are involved at any stage, terms should be inserted in contractual agreements dealing with ownership and use of the output.
1993	These systems, which are intended to emulate the thought processes, analytical reasoning and advice of experts, contain a great deal of skill and expertise within the systems themselves.
1993	An expert system, in basic terms, contains three main elements: a knowledge-base (rules and facts provided by experts), an inference engine (a program which manipulates the knowledge-base and applies it to a particular problem) and a user interface to make the system "user-friendly" and to provide explanations of the reasoning adopted and advice given by the expert system.
1993	Although the courts might be willing to imply terms, for example that the licensee or "purchaser" of such systems owns the copyright in any output, it is obviously more sensible to recognize the difficulties associated with this part of the Act and to make suitable contractual provision for ownership (as opposed to authorship) of output.
1993	In Andersen Consulting v CHP Consulting Ltd. (1991), a case concerning a dispute about maintenance of software by third parties, it was said that confidence is frequently used in connection with copyright material as it is: of course notorious that copyright protects only the expression of ideas and does not protect the idea itself
1993	If the information is commonplace or is common knowledge to a group of persons (for example, it is well known to programmers) or to the public at large , it cannot be confidential; instead, it will be considered to be in the public domain.
1993	Examples of information relevant to which may be the subject matter of confidence include: Ideas for a new or improved system, hardware and software.
1993	Details of existing systems as would be known by analysts or programmers or even users of the system.
1993	A high proportion of information stored in databases is confidential.
1993	Obviously, an obligation of confidence can arise by express agreement; for example, where a freelance programmer is engaged to carry out some work under a contract which contains a term stating that the programmer will not use or divulge details of the client's business.
1993	Another situation where the obligation will be imposed is where a person discusses his ideas with business organizations with a view to the commercial exploitation of those ideas; for example, if a analyst has an idea for a new system and discusses that idea with software houses interested in developing and marketing the system.
1993	In Denco Ltd. v Joinson [1991], an employee who had a right of access to certain information in his employer's system used another employee's password to gain access to other parts of the system, something he was not entitled to do.
1993	In this case, a programmer developed a program which was similar to one he had written for his previous employer.
1993	The case involved copyright matters in addition to the law of confidence and is notable in that the court recognized that programs were protected by South African copyright law as literary works.
1993	The trial judge agreed that the programs were protected by confidence but said that the protection should be of a limited nature.
1993	There would be nothing, in principle, to prevent an ex-employee programmer writing a similar program by the exercise of his own mental effort provided he did not simply plagiarize his previous employer's program.
1993	To some extent, an important factor is the program itself, whether it is a commonplace program, carrying out mundane operations, or whether it is designed to do something novel, whether the purpose of the program can be said to be in the nature of a trade secret.
1993	programmers and analysts will be allowed to make use of programming techniques and skills which they have learnt and which have become part of their own skill and experience, unless there is something very special about them or they have expressly agreed not to make further use of them.
1993	The same fate will await any terms which restrict the ex-employee's future employment prospects to any great extent; for example, a term which states that a programmer cannot work for software companies in the United Kingdom for five years following the termination of his employment.
1993	Such restrictive terms will be upheld by the courts only if they are reasonable, such as when a programmer working for a bank agrees not to work for another similar bank within a five mile radius for the first year following the termination of his employment.
1993	hackers
1993	A hacker is a person who gains access to a system without permission.
1993	hackers pose a serious threat to the security of systems and some of the activities in which they engage are potentially criminal in nature.
1993	However, hackers might also be liable under the law of confidence, depending on the circumstances.
1993	If a hacker gains access to confidential files stored on a , it is just possible that the law of confidence might be used to prevent the hacker from making use of the information assuming, of course, that the hacker can be identified.
1993	In many cases, information stored in systems is highly confidential.
1993	But will an obligation of confidence attach to a hacker?
1993	In principle, this is very similar to the position of a hacker.
1993	Clause 5 of the Bill would impose an obligation of confidence on a person who improperly acquires information by using or interfering with any or data retrieval mechanism, a welcome clarification.
1993	In the industry, as with any other, ideas have to be discussed with various persons and organizations with a view to raising finance and granting licences to use or make the resulting invention or copyright work.
1993	A patentable invention could relate to a new piece of hardware such as a new mouse, new type of output device such as a more efficient flat screen or new form of storage medium or it could be a new way of making integrated circuits or flat screens.
1993	There have been many patent applications for hardware and other electronic materials; for example, the invention of the printed circuit board, transistor and integrated circuit have all been patented.
1993	The basic requirements for the grant of a patent will now be explained with reference to technology, followed by a consideration of the exclusions and their impact, especially with respect to software.
1993	The exclusions referred to in d), which include programs, will be considered later but first the interpretation of the first three conditions will be examined because, if any one of them is not satisfied, a patent cannot be granted.
1993	It has been accepted that the "skilled person" may be a team of highly qualified research workers such as a team of analysts and programmers.
1993	technology spreads into all sorts of other technologies and this may lead to patentable inventions, even though the technology itself is not new, if the application of the technology is new.
1993	Therefore, if someone develops a new form of layout for the components in a or a new configuration for printed circuit boards, these are unlikely to be granted patents.
1993	Section 1(2) of the Patents Act 1977 contains those which can generally be classified as coming within the scope of copyright law or the law of confidence and, in that context, programs are of particular interest.
1993	Section 1(2) of the Act states that the following are not inventions for the purposes of the Act:(a) a discovery, scientific theory or mathematical method;(b) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work or any other aesthetic creation whatsoever;(c) a scheme, rule or method for performing any mental act, playing a game or doing business, or a program for a ;(d) the presentation of information; but the foregoing provision shall prevent anything from being treated as an invention for the purposes of this Act only to the extent that a patent or application for a patent relates to that thing as such (emphasis added)
1993	For example, a program to control the temperature of a furnace cannot be patented (it will, of course , be protected by copyright).
1993	The exclusion from patent of programs reflects international trends.
1993	Copyright is seen as the proper vehicle for the protection of programs although, when the current Patents Act was passed in 1977, it was far from clear whether copyright did protect programs.
1993	Even before the 1977 Act, programs were not generally patentable per se, but there have been cases, both in the United Kingdom and in the United States, where programs have been granted patents indirectly, usually as being part of a piece of machinery or an industrial process.
1993	However, because of subsequent technological developments, integrated circuits, magnetic disks and tapes and optical character readers now are used to enter information into a or to store the programs which control the .
1993	In another case, Burrough's Corporation (Perkin's) Application [1974], programs controlled the transmission of data to terminals from a central (a communications system).
1993	The system, including the programs, was held to be the proper subject matter of a patent because the programs were embodied in physical form; they were "hard-wired" , permanently embedded in the electronic circuits of the equipment.
1993	This decision would have had the effect of making a software designer's choice of storage medium crucial to the question of patentability but it was, fortunately, quickly overruled in the Court of Appeal where Lord Justice Nicholls said: It would equally be nonsense if a floppy disc [sic]containing a program was not patentable that a ROM characterised only by the instructions in that program should be patentable
1993	The Court of Appeal's decision conforms with common sense and the simple expedient of hard-wiring a program should not, per se, make the program patentable.
1993	Two alternative approaches have been made to the question of the patent protection of inventions which include a program.
1993	For example, if a machine includes a program it is then a question of whether the machine, without taking the program into  account, adds anything to the state of the art.
1993	Does the machine, ignoring the program, meet the requirements for patentability?
1993	If the only novel and inventive step concerns the program itself, then the machine as a whole is not patentable.
1993	The judge, Falconer J. said that the novel and inventive effect must reside outside the program even though it may be defined by the program.
1993	It was said that if a claim is directed to a technical process which is carried out under the control of a program (whether implemented in the hardware or the software), then the claim cannot be regarded as related to a program as such.
1993	In the present case, the subject matter of the invention was the practical application of a program, the technical effect resulting from the operation of the programmed and not the program itself.
1993	Whilst a patent will be refused for a program simpliciter (or any of the other exceptions in section 1(2) for that matter) it will be allowed if the  purpose of the program is to bring about some practical effect and it is that effect which is the subject matter of the patent application.
1993	It has been argued that a special, hybrid type of right should be introduced for programs; something between a patent and copyright.
1993	The Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 confirms this forcibly by its clear inclusion of programs in the literary work category of works protected by copyright.
1993	The nature of the infringement depends on whether the invention is a product (for example, a new type of printer) or a process (for example , a new method of making integrated circuits).
1993	For example, if a person supplies a in kit form which, when assembled, infringes a patent, then the supplier of the kit infringes the patent even if he is just a middle-man as long as he has the requisite knowledge.
1993	The person assembling the kit will not be liable under patent law, however, if he assembles and uses the privately and for non- commercial purposes.
1993	To give a practical example of infringement, consider the following situation: An inventor A has invented a new type of  "chip" and a new process which will be used for making those chips.
1993	B finds out about the process and decides to build a similar process for making these chips.
1993	B then makes some chips and sells them to D, a trade supplier.
1993	B has infringed the patent for the chips even if he did not know or could not be expected to know of the patent.
1993	D infringes the patent for the chips, regardless of knowledge.
1993	In the industry, the power of trade marks can readily be seen as, in a relatively short space of time, names such as Apple , IBM, WordStar, Lotus 1-2-3 and BBC have become household names.
1993	A familiar name or mark is very influential as many who buy hardware and software will look for a product which is likely to be of reasonable quality and will be supported  in years to come.
1993	There have been few examples of trade mark infringement in the world of as most counterfeiters and software pirates have used different names or marks; for example, copies of the Apple imported into Australia were called the "Wombat" .
1993	bureaux fall within the miscellaneous category of services.
1993	For example, it may be permissible to use the Apple logo for brandy (providing it has not been registered against the wines and spirits class) and there would be little danger of the public thinking it had anything to do with the company.
1993	However, if the logo were used by a bureau, although there may be no infringement of trade mark (unless the Apple logo had been registered in miscellaneous services class), there would probably be an action in passing-off because many people might think that the bureau was somehow connected with the company.
1993	This should not present any major difficulties in the context of , although a dating agency which wanted to use a service mark "COMPUTADATE" but did not have a might fall into this category.
1993	In Compaq Corp. v Dell Corp.
1993	Ltd. [1992], Dell advertised their with a photograph showing their and a Compaq with both makers' names (including the word "Compaq" , a registered trade mark) and the price of the machines.
1993	A retailer has been operating for three years under the name of "EQUIPMENT SALES" and has a chain of stores in the South of England.
1993	Recently, another retailer has opened a store in the South of England and uses the name of "EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE" .
1993	Neither names are registered as a trade mark; in fact the names would be refused registration because they are too descriptive of retailing generally and would make it difficult for other traders to describe their business activities.
1993	In terms of technology trade libel would occur if someone falsely claimed that a particular software dealer was trading in pirated software or was in financial difficulties or if a software house's products were defective or would not operate on a particular make of .
1993	In Compaq Corp. v Dell Corp.
1993	Ltd. [1992], discussed earlier in this chapter, it was held that there was an arguable case of trade libel because the systems compared were materially different and the representations as to price were misleading and not justified.
1993	Designs are relevant to hardware and semiconductor products (discussed in the following chapter).
1993	equipment may be designed in such a way that it is aesthetically pleasing as well as functional, there may be something novel about the design which falls short of the scope of patents.
1993	Examples of these are: an attractive outer case for a monitor, a useful case for disks with built-in carrying handle, a desk for a or a new shape for a portable .
1993	In this context, "design" has the same definition as it does for the purposes of the design right and a design document includes a drawing or other documents such as specifications, photographs and data stored in a .
1993	It is no longer possible, in most cases, to rely on copyright in any drawings or data relating to the design.
1993	Many of the intricacies of the law of designs have little relevance to technology and a complete discussion of the rights is outside the scope of this book.
1993	The following description of the two forms of right is thus necessarily brief and the emphasis is on equipment rather than attempting to give a detailed account of design law.
1993	Examples are a new shape of coffee cup or a new transfer pattern applied to plates or attractive and novel furniture and with such objects the appearance of the object is important to a person buying  it.
1993	Even if a person is buying desks for or word processors for an office, the appearance of the furniture is a major factor influencing the choice.
1993	However, an attractively designed is less likely to fall within the scope of registered designs because a person buying a is more interested in the performance of the ; its appearance is not important to a material extent, although it must be acknowledged that the Design Registry and the courts took a fairly liberal attitude prior to the changes to the 1949 Act and are likely to continue to be generous in this respect.
1993	If the design has been generated by a in circumstances where there is no human author, the person making the arrangements is treated as the proprietor of the design.
1993	Any piece of equipment which has to be fitted to some other equipment, such as a replacement "card" (printed circuit board containing integrated circuits) which has to be a certain shape, or have a certain type of connector, in order to fit into a will also fall into the first part of the exception.
1993	If a design right monopoly were to be granted to spare parts, manufacturers of cars, washing machines, , etc. would be able to control the supply and price of spare parts and might be tempted to charge exorbitant prices.
1993	The second part of the exception would apply to spare parts such as replacement body panels for cars where the design is dictated by the appearance of the car but it is unlikely that many spare parts will fall into this category.
1993	An example of equipment which falls into the "functional" exception (i.e. the first part of the exception) is a soundproof box for a printer (acoustic hood).
1993	Design right lasts for 15 years from the end of the calendar year in which it was first recorded in a design document (which includes storage in a ) or an article was made to the design, unless articles have been made available for sale or hire within the first five years in which case the right lasts only a further 10 years.
1993	Integrated circuits, commonly known as "silicon chips" or, simply, "chips" , are of tremendous importance to the industry.
1993	Without the miniaturization that they bring, the powerful personal of today would have remained an impossibility.
1993	Incidentally, the printed circuit boards commonly found inside most electronic equipment, ranging from transistor radios to , are not protected by these regulations because, although comprised of layers (usually two), neither layer is made from semiconductor material.
1993	The semiconductor design right is, by section 226(1) of the 1988 Act, the exclusive right to reproduce the design by making articles to that design or by making a design document (which includes data stored in a ) recording the design for the purpose of enabling such articles to be made.
1993	Design documents include drawings, photographs and data and the effect of section 51 is to remove copyright protection from semiconductor topographies leaving the amended design right with its limited duration as the only form of legal protection, apart from the law of confidence which will protect until, at least, the semiconductor products are made available.
1993	Bearing in mind the international nature of business, the territorial scope of intellectual property rights is a serious issue to those creating and developing hardware and software.
1993	technology and its use has attracted much interest from the European Community (EC).
1993	We have already seen the effects of Directives on software copyright, semiconductor products, data protection, safety and product liability.
1993	The law has developed, somewhat slowly it might be claimed, to take account of technology and to protect ideas and innovation concerning the technology.
1993	However, the importance of such protection has been recognized by U.K. legislators and the judiciary and, as a result, and software are reasonably well protected from counterfeiting and piracy.
1993	Certainly, without strong protection, the industry would seem a poor area in which to invest, and foreign investment and the resulting jobs created would be lost to the United Kingdom.
1993	For example, in the case of a new piece of equipment, the law of confidence is all important in the early stages as it is being developed and evaluated.
1993	This parallel and overlapping protection is all the more relevant in the industry.
1993	For example, imagine that a new has been designed.
1993	It is to be sold with and includes software which is "hard-wired" (firmware) resident on integrated circuits inside the in addition to software on magnetic disk.
1993	The has a new type of keyboard and an attractive design embossed on the monitor case which also carries the manufacturer's stylized name.
1993	The following rights may be relevant to this system: Patent Being new, the may incorporate some new and patentable inventions Copyright The software on disk and the programs stored on the integrated circuits (firmware) and all accompanying documentation are protected under copyright law Semiconductor The topography of the integrated circuits Regulations containing the firmware Trade Marks The stylized name may be registered as a trade mark Registered Design The embossed pattern may be a registered design Design Right The new type of keyboard may fall within the scope of the new design right
1993	Those writing and developing software should distribute the programs in object code form only.
1993	Software developers and users of software should clarify any doubts concerning the ownership of any output produced by the use of the system in question.
1993	An air of confidence must be maintained during negotiations between those with new ideas for software, systems, etc. and potential manufacturers, investors and the like.
1993	It may now be easier to obtain a patent for an invention which includes a program despite the apparent exception of programs from the scope of patent law.
1993	It needs to be borne in mind that the program will be protected by copyright law regardless of the patent situation.
1993	Those manufacturing or marketing software or hardware are advised to register a distinctive name or mark as a trade mark and not to rely on the law of passing-off which requires an established reputation.
1993	bureaux and other persons providing services for payment can now register a service mark.
1993	Manufacturers and distributors of spare parts for equipment must familiarize themselves with the "must-fit" and "must-match" exceptions and their scope.
1993	contracts
1993	Contracts for the acquisition and use of hardware and software are dealt with in this Part.
1993	Many such contracts are not sale contracts as such but are licence agreements; this is particularly so with respect to software where the owner of the rights subsisting in the software grants licences to customers, giving them permission to use the software in return for a licence fee.
1993	Following the introductory chapter, the fundamentals of the law of contract are discussed and related to technology.
1993	In subsequent chapters, particular types of contracts are described; contracts for the writing of software, "off-the-shelf" software licences, agreements between software authors and publishers and, finally, hardware contracts.
1993	Chapter 18 contains a checklist of terms normally to be found in contracts concerning hardware and software.
1993	Introduction to contracts
1993	Contracts for the acquisition of equipment and software present special problems, many of which flow from the unique nature of technology.
1993	For example, we cannot see or touch a program running in a , all we can do is experience its effects through a peripheral device such as a monitor or a printer.
1993	It may be possible to read a listing of a program and perhaps make some sense of it but, certainly to many of us who have to use programs, they take on a quasi-mystical nature as they are, after all, intangible.
1993	It is the difficulty in coming to terms with the nature, effects and implications of equipment and software that is a direct cause of many of the contractual problems associated with .
1993	The case of Brownton Ltd. v Edward Moore Inbucon Ltd. [1985]provides an example of the financial implications of misunderstandings between the parties to a contract involving systems.
1993	A firm of commodity brokers sought advice from a consultant on the installation of a system.
1993	The consultant had charged over £66,000 for his work and the system had cost in the region of £75,000.
1993	Later, the broker submitted better particulars and claimed that an alternative system capable of carrying out the work would cost in excess of £1,100,000.
1993	A company wants to install a system in one of its departments which has previously had to use slow, laborious (but reliable) manual methods.
1993	The initial decision to do this is probably based on some vague notion that a system will increase efficiency, or perhaps because all its competitors have installed systems.
1993	The company may already have a mainframe with a data processing department and the manager might suggest that some potentially suitable software packages be evaluated and that obtaining a ready-made package should be considerably less expensive than writing one from scratch.
1993	The people in the company who will have to run the system, the manager or director in whose department the system will be installed ought to be involved in the selection process, but such people are  unlikely to have much knowledge of and software although they may be familiar with word processing and spreadsheet systems running on microcomputers.
1993	The data processing manager and other professionals, either within the company or brought in from outside as consultants, will have an important contribution to make to the decision.
1993	But, although they will have an intimate knowledge of , they will probably not have a deep knowledge of the particular application of the proposed software.
1993	The people will want to know how the software will fit in with their portfolio of software, whether it will require additional equipment, how well it will be maintained, how portable it is and so on.
1993	There may follow a lack of communication and understanding between the professionals, the legal advisers, the ultimate users and the supplier of the software resulting in the purchase of a system which is cumbersome, does not provide all the information the users now realize they would have liked and which runs far too slowly to be of any practical use.
1993	An allegation that the problem lies with the client's own installation might be difficult to refute.
1993	Data processing personnel and independent consultants must educate department heads and legal advisers as to the implications and dangers involved in acquiring equipment and software.
1993	Departmental heads and legal advisers, for their part, must be prepared to ask questions of their advisers and, even more importantly, to listen to the answers.
1993	The lack of, or defects in, the specification are probably at the heart of most disputes resulting from the acquisition of equipment and software.
1993	In Andersen Consulting v CHP Consulting Ltd. (1991), ex-employees of the plaintiff set up in business on their own account, providing maintenance for the plaintiff's programs.
1993	In the next chapter, the basic legal consequences of contracts will be described.
1993	Then, individual terms which may be found in various types of contracts will be discussed in subsequent chapters with a view to avoiding the disasters that await the unwary.
1993	Fundamentals of contracts
1993	For example, in Dyason v Autodesk Inc. (1990) there was much confusion as to whether a "dongle" , a device required to be inserted into a before a program would operate, contained a program and in Gale's Application [1991], the trial judge (erroneously) drew a distinction between a program on disk and one hard-wired into a ROM chip.
1993	Such confusion is largely a result of the difficulty many lawyers have when dealing with a highly technical field such as science but it does not stop there.
1993	hardware, if it is sold, will be subject to the Sale of Goods Act 1979 whereas an agreement for specially written ( "bespoke" ) software will be within the scope of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982.
1993	But suppose the car is faulty and that fault is traced to a program installed in the electronic ignition system.
1993	The purchaser would still expect, rightly, to be  able to obtain a remedy from the seller under the Sale of Goods Act even though he has not obtained ownership of the copyright subsisting in the program.
1993	After all, the buyer wanted to own a car not a program.
1993	Therefore, a contract to purchase a is a sale of goods contract notwithstanding the inclusion of software embodied within the .
1993	Contracts for the acquisition of software alone cannot be sale of goods contracts; the title to the software is not normally transferred nor is a program a good.
1993	The most common method of acquiring software is by way of a licence which is granted by the software publisher to the person or company acquiring the software, giving permission to use the software in return for the licence fee, the "price" .
1993	The special nature of software and the fact that software is usually acquired by means of a licence have several legal implications.
1993	To begin with, the Sale of Goods Act 1979 does not apply to software.
1993	It seems unlikely, even if the copyright is transferred with the programs, that an intangible program resident on a magnetic disk or in a chip is a personal chattel, because copyright is a "thing in action" like company shares or a money order, to be contrasted with the more tangible "things in possession" such as motor cars or .
1993	The result of all this is that the terms contained in the Sale of Goods Act which are implied into a contract for the sale of goods will not apply to a software contract.
1993	Has the Sale of Goods and Services Act any relevance for software contracts?
1993	The 1982 Act will be relevant, however, if an independent firm or a programmer is engaged to write a program as this should come within the meaning of "service" .
1993	So there is good reason to believe that a contract for writing a program will fall within that part of the Act dealing with the supply of services, sections 12 to 16.
1993	If this view is taken by the courts, bearing in mind that "service" is not defined in the Act, it will result in the appropriate terms from the Act being implied into a contract for the supply of such software systems.
1993	It may sometimes be difficult to determine the identity of the supplier where software is obtained off-the-shelf.
1993	Dealers may also wish to consider including appropriate and reasonable exemption clauses in their supply contracts with respect to advice-giving systems.
1993	Therefore, if a firm engaged to write a program fails to measure up to the standards that would normally be expected from able programmers and the program turns out to be sub-standard then, prima facie, the firm will be liable in contract.
1993	A contract for the writing of programs should have detailed provisions about completion times and all section 14 does is to provide a net to catch those instances where there has been an oversight.
1993	As far as equipment (hardware) is concerned, this may be purchased outright or hired.
1993	For example, consider a contract to deliver a by "the 1st June at the latest" .
1993	Additionally, the buyer can claim damages which would be equivalent to the difference in cost of buying another similar elsewhere and any other expenses and losses he has been put to as a direct consequence of the breach, with the proviso that he mitigates his losses, that is, he keeps them to a minimum.
1993	The buyer may have wanted the to expand his business and he will be able to claim the resulting loss in profits, provided the seller knew or should have known of this; that is, it was in the reasonable contemplation of the parties.
1993	For example, if a supplier has agreed to deliver a system and the contract states that the terminals are to be a deep yellow colour but, instead, he delivers a with lemon coloured terminals, this will amount to a breach of warranty unless there is some special reason why the deep yellow colour was specified.
1993	The buyer will be entitled to damages only and he will still have to pay the purchase price of the , although he may be able to set-off a sum representing the damages.
1993	How does the basic principle that damages are based on the losses that were within the contemplation of the parties when the contract was made work in the context of ?
1993	Suppose that you run a bureau and carry out ordinary data processing work.
1993	You decide to expand the business and buy a more powerful to be delivered by a certain date.
1993	You tell the supplier that you need the to carry out some additional data processing but neglect to inform him that you are negotiating a very lucrative top secret government contract on the basis of having the new .
1993	If the is delivered late, then you would be entitled to damages based on the loss in profits in the normal course of business but you would not be entitled to anything should you lose the government contract.
1993	There may be some terms however which are obviously conditions, for example, if the contract is for the delivery of a particular make of , and the seller attempts to deliver a different make altogether, this would clearly be a breach of condition.
1993	What sort of terms in contracts could be described as innominate terms?
1993	Suppose that a contract is made for the provision of a network to link individual together, a term in the contract stating that the network will support at least 16 microcomputers.
1993	Provisions concerning the performance of a system, how fast the programs work in practice, the degree of compatibility with other equipment are likely to be innominate terms.
1993	Provisions which will probably be conditions from the beginning deal with aspects such as the time for delivery and the description of the actual concerned.
1993	If you are negotiating with a salesman with a view to acquiring software, he may make statements regarding the software and its performance.
1993	Imagine that a company buys a .
1993	It is important that this is directly compatible with its existing equipment and the supplier confirms in good faith, before the contract is made, that the is compatible although the contract itself is silent on the matter.
1993	Some weeks after accepting delivery and paying for the , it is found that, although the works well in every other respect, it is not compatible with the company's other machines and cannot reasonably be made so.
1993	Before the 1967 Act, the company acquiring the would have no remedy for this innocent misrepresentation, unless it was deemed to be a contractual term, as it would be too late to have the contract set aside.
1993	The better approach would have been for the company to insist that an express term was inserted into the contract to the effect that the to be acquired must be compatible with the existing equipment.
1993	For example, in 1992 it was discovered that around 1,000 patients at a North Staffordshire hospital had received incorrect dosages of radiation therapy because of an alleged fault in a program.
1993	Later that same year the London Ambulance's new system failed dramatically throwing the ambulance service into chaos and, possibly, resulting in a number of deaths caused by the consequential delays in getting ambulances to their call-out destinations.
1993	Defects in equipment and software can cause all manner of damage.
1993	What is the significance of the tort of negligence as far as and software are concerned?
1993	Although it is unlikely that decomposing snails will be found within the workings of , it is possible to come across  "bugs" ; and there may still be some further nasty surprises.
1993	At first sight it may seem unlikely that and software could kill or cause serious injury, but negligent liability does not stop at personal injury but extends to damage to property.
1993	equipment runs on electricity so there is always the danger of electrical shock and, if this results from negligence, there is a strong possibility of an action in negligence.
1993	A program is used to calculate the amount of fuel required; this is based on information such as the number of passengers, the weight of baggage, the flight distance and prevailing winds, etc.
1993	Then because of a hitherto undiscovered "bug" in the program, less fuel is loaded than required, with the result that the aircraft runs out of fuel over mid-Atlantic.
1993	It is possible that the company writing the program was negligent in its  testing of the program.
1993	The total size of the claims resulting from such an incident might well be enormous, even though the program itself may have only cost a few hundred pounds.
1993	The fact that an action in negligence lies without the need for a contract is important both for program writers and manufacturers of equipment.
1993	In the case of hardware, a person suffering loss or injury as a result of the negligence of the manufacturer will have a claim in negligence against the manufacturer regardless of the fact that the equipment was bought from a dealer.
1993	A person writing a program, or a company manufacturing equipment will not necessarily be potentially liable to the world at large in negligence; they will be liable, however, to those whom they could contemplate being adversely affected by any negligent act or omission of theirs.
1993	If a has been badly made and is an electrical hazard then, if the person who has been electrocuted had tampered with the machine, the damages awarded may be reduced in proportion to the extent of his contribution to the accident.
1993	Fortunately, death or personal injury resulting from the use of a is a rare occurrence, but other forms of loss or damage might be more common; for example, in a business context where a may be used to assist with decision-making, there is a strong probability that a financial loss will be blamed on the .
1993	It is in terms of expert systems or other items of software designed to provide advice that the potential for liability for negligence takes on special significance.
1993	Liability will not be avoided simply because the system has a fault and the same principles apply here as in the case of conventional software.
1993	A would therefore come within the meaning of product but software will be outside the scope of this part of the Act.
1993	This might have implications for the many companies which import made outside the European Community especially the "clone" importers who affix their own name to the equipment.
1993	A with an exposed unearthed metal chassis would fall short of the expectation of safety.
1993	, especially microcomputers and terminals with monitors, have been claimed to be harmful to the health of the operator because of radioactive emissions although at the present time there does not appear to be any conclusive proof that a real danger to health exists.
1993	If, however, a definite association were to be found between the occurrence of skin cancers or miscarriages and the continued use of monitors, then manufacturers and importers who continued to make or sell equipment giving  off such dangerous emissions would be liable under the Act.
1993	The product liability provisions contained in the Consumer Protection Act came into force in 1988 and, although it is a little early to be certain, the implications and effects of these provisions could be quite enormous for all manufacturers including those making equipment.
1993	Thus, if a accessory manufacturer makes a device improving the safety of , this might imply that not fitted with such devices fall short of the expectation of safety.
1993	As far as property damage is concerned, the provisions are really aimed at the consumer market, so, if you buy a home as a Christmas present for your uncle and because of a fault it catches fire and causes £1,500 of damage to his house, then your uncle will have a claim under the 1987 Act against the manufacturer of the for the damage to the house and furniture.
1993	Personally, you may have a separate claim against the retail outlet because the was not of merchantable quality under the Sale of Goods Act 1979.
1993	An example of a limitation clause is where a supplier of software limits his liability for faulty software to the licence fee he has received for that software.
1993	Other important provisions of the Unfair Contract Terms Act relate to the implied terms under the Sale of Goods Act and similar legislation; these will apply to hardware but will be largely irrelevant as far as software is concerned because software does not come within the definition of goods.
1993	If a salesman claims that the he is selling will run a particular software package and this claim turns out to be untrue, it will be for the company selling the  to show that any exemption clause it hopes to rely on passes the test of reasonableness.
1992	The Law Commission, Misuse, Law Com.
1993	Pupils look at modern computerised methods of printing and prepare their own news-sheet on using a simple newspaper software package.
1993	In a study of the Vikings, pupils might begin with the Vikings in their own area, but could go on to use the simulation "Raiders" , putting them in the role of Vikings deciding where and how to attack the British Isles.
1993	Not only are there the possibilities offered by electronic mail in communicating with the other school, but classes might put their information onto the and exchange data disks.
1993	software packages and simulations offer another possible approach.
1993	Not every school will be able to travel down to Portsmouth to see the wreck of the Mary Rose for themselves, but they could watch a video about the discovery and raising of the wreck, and carry out a simulation to search for the wreck.
1993	The use of concept keyboard touch screens, or use of a "mouse" rather than the keyboard, has opened up many exciting possibilities.
1993	They might even use the to print out some simple questions to use on site.
1993	Pupils at Key Stage 2 will be extending their skills, and it is important that part of the history course is delivered through .
1993	Often use of the source-base can generate activities.
1993	(17) Using a interrogating a database; consulting a viewdata programme; carrying out a simulation of some kind; inputting data onto a database; using word processing packages to produce written work for history; using a to generate barcharts, graphs, etc. (18) Watching video or film.
1993	A concrete example could be in the use of databases.
1993	Hence the challenge of building a Norman motte and bailey castle on behalf of a conquering lord (Fletcher's Castle, a programme from Fernleaf Productions) can become a real one in which the balances between defence and construction and survival have to be struck.
1993	On an even broader front the use of an integrated package on such as Wagons West from Tressell Publications not only develops empathetic understanding of the dilemmas facing early American pioneers but allows cross-curricular links with geography, religious education and English.
1993	Into the Unknown, another Tressell Publication, played on board or can allow pupils to examine different attitudes towards exploration in the sixteenth century.
1993	The newest models at Yorvik are based on a reconstruction, which can take a skull and remodel the flesh on the human face; building up from the skeleton is the nearest we can get to what individual Vikings actually looked like.
1993	More recently, archive sources have also been used in newer formats, in databases, viewdata programmes or telex simulations for instance.
1993	Often the can be connected to a printer to provide an instant printout.
1993	The or concept keyboard is becoming a useful tool in the preparation work for site visits.
1993	Pupils could use the to prepare for their visit and arrive provided with printouts  of data-sheets or lists of questions.
1993	Data about different castles could be put into the and the different castles compared.
1993	for history teaching
1993	technology is experiencing rapid change.
1993	When were first introduced in schools, they were the preserve of the maths or science departments or of special studies courses.
1993	However, as the use of has spread rapidly to large sectors of work and business, there has been a growing trend to encourage the use of in schools across the curriculum.
1993	The teacher of history will need to plan the use of resources so that some parts of the scheme of work are delivered through .
1993	One of the earliest uses of in history teaching involved the use of database software.
1993	The chief value of the in this instance lies in its ability to search a large number of records very quickly.
1993	As software has improved can also output the results in the form of bar-charts, pie-charts, scattergraphs, and so on.
1993	This sort of work may involve as much discussion and "off screen" work as actual use of the (see Box 17).
1993	simulations
1993	Other based variations on the basic concept use a mouse-driven pointer to select key areas of an image.
1993	Other resources
1993	Other software uses to stop and start ancillaries, such as tape recorders or videos.
1993	Classroom management for the use of
1993	A new style of classroom management may be required when using in history teaching.
1993	Arrangements will depend on how many are available.
1993	A single may be constantly available alongside other resources as a reference tool, or for some simulations.
1993	Better provided classrooms may have a number of , but groups may have to be rotated in turn to use a , while other groups carry out other tasks.
1993	Indeed one possible advantage offered by is that they free children from lower order tasks and allow far more time for higher order thinking — instead of laboriously drawing a graph, pupils have more time for analysis of a graph produced by the .
1993	Teaching strategies need to adapt to this new situation, to exploit the potential offered by .
1993	should also complement not replace other resources, and where sources are offered on screen, there should also be "hard copy" examples of what the original documents actually look like.
1993	resources can be created by teachers, or pupils, as well as purchased from commercial sources, using viewdata, telex or database software.
1993	You may also be able to store your notes on the equivalent of index cards on a (in a database, or in word-processing document files).
1993	On the other hand, on a screen you can only see a small amount of information at any given time, whereas with index cards you can lay them out across a table or on the floor for an overview.
1993	You also have to be able to have the with you when you take the notes, which is not always easy to arrange.
1993	2.8 USING A TO FIND AND STORE INFORMATION
1993	are particularly good for finding, storing and retrieving information.
1993	And it is possible to make new electronic texts by scanning printed texts into a .
1993	Read for a while, then do some writing or some research browsing in a library; this can reduce the effect of strain or tiredness with long bouts of writing, something which is particularly important for health reasons if you work at a .
1992	It is a sector dominated by large firms and characterised by state involvement, either as owner or as principal customer, and includes telecommunication equipment, and office equipment.
1994	The control and communication functions of middle management become redundant when everyone has access to their own terminal.
1994	New imaging and scanning equipment can transmit images away from the site of the machine since they use not X-ray film, allowing doctors at outlying sites to have recourse to specialist opinion relayed from a distance.
1992	are now able to "talk" to one another without human control, and memories can be altered without trace.
1992	Electronically stored documents are admissible in court, but because technology permits documents stored on such to be edited without leaving any trace, there is the danger that if the identity of the sender of the content of the document is disputed it will be impossible to prove to the court's satisfaction that the message is authentic.
1992	It is managed from an office located within the Bank of England which has direct links to over 100 firms including all GEMMs, IDBs, SEMBs, the large banks and many of the large institutional investors in government stock.
1992	Member firms hold stock in accounts with the CGO and same-day transfers can be made between accounts on receipt of instructions via terminals.
1992	When a bargain has been struck the TOPIC ( "Teletext Output of Price Information on " ) price displays are altered to show the last trades made.
1992	It is a fully computerised exchange which enables dealers to conduct their business via display screens linked to a central rather than by open outcry on a trading floor.
1992	The DTB adapted the SOFFEX's software to suit its own needs.
1992	A group of trades and professions has grown around the core financial institutions to provide other services, such as lawyers (of particular importance to primary eurobond issuance), accountants, actuaries, security printers, programmers and consultants.
1993	The information can be given in the form of a poster, letters, tape-recorded message (as if coming over the radio), video-tape (TV news), or on a screen.
1993	The reflective process often involves work in other curriculum areas, be it discussion, writing, artwork, programming.
1993	Information on a disc a database giving details of the crew of a spaceship, or a message transmitted through space from the crew to settlers on a distant planet.
1993	If the whole class is involved in researching a topic — which might include using the , browsing through the library, watching a video programme — it becomes easier to supervise the work of one small group (that might, for example, be preparing an interview).
1993	Messages telegrams memoranda messages in code reports from spaceship to Earth via messages in a bottle after a shipwreck.
1993	Research begins on the materials needed for railway construction, with some children producing a broadsheet (on ) reporting what has been happening in the town — which they "sell" in the next drama session.
1993	Adults learning to use are frequently taught very basic principles (like how to switch on the machine and "boot" a disc) and then encouraged to simply play with it for a while.
1993	Erm, you know people do say these things about codes.
1993	Erm, there is one slight technical problem which I have to overcome in relation to a terminal but I'll erm face that problem at if and when that situation develops.
1993	They also supply as I understood?
1993	they've just rehashed the old plan, and just drawn a red line round the bit they want us to look at, erm, this bit  know it's a .
1993	If you bear in mind that virtually every other product is, has been able to er, to be accommodated within GATT, it shows that the agricultural lobby is pretty damn powerful, alright, not only in this country, but throughout the world erm, to prevent that, you know, much more so than steel, coal, cars, , any of those industries that you might think oh, pretty powerful lobby groups, er, haven't got a patch on the farmers, but er  right, okay, so those reasons may count for erm, for protectionism, er, sorry, for er, the relative de decline of er agricultural trade.
1993	If you just look at the er  the sheet, that we've handed out, they  loaded from er from the it's that data that's in front of you, right, we've got three, three series, right, it's times  data, right, from nineteen twenty three to nineteen forty five, right and the three variables are, textile consumption,United States er real, sorry  is benevolence of the U S, so it's textile consumption,capita, real income er per capita income to be adjusted through inflation, so  constant money terms and what the relative price of textiles P erm the price of textiles relative to the general level er the general price level.
1993	If you then er, it will then ask you over what period do you want to  right so if you press the end key that will submit the job erm it asks for the sample period, we're going to use the whole of the sample, so if you just press the return key, that's the default for the whole of the sample, right, it then asks you what procedure you want to use to estimate the model, we're going to use O L S  option one, just press the return key O L S then  the has estimated the model, right.
1993	Before we move on, let's just have a look at those numerical estimates, can we look at the coefficients on income, notice that in this model because we've logged both dependent and the independent variables, right, the coefficients that we estimate are elasticities, right, so we can read those coefficients off directly as elasticities and that's the case for any model in which all the variables are logged  right, in er, if we didn't log the data, in order to calculate the elasticity we have to multiply a coefficient the gives us by a erm price quantity ratio, price less, less  part of the income constant ratio to obtain the income elasticities.
1993	Well what's happening is it the, during the war, right, we're constraining the to estimate, like a single coefficient that is applicable to both war and peacetime er isn't the case, right,th there is a structural change, right, so when th when we constrain the to estimate the coefficients throughout the whole period, right, the coefficients are biased but if they don't apply either to the post er pre war peacetime sample neither do they er fit very well to the data during the wartime, right, if we allow the intercept to change but we're getting much better estimates both wartime and peacetime er parameter's okay because we haven't got rid of, we've got rid of that bias, right, in constraining the parameters to fit both wartime and peacetime er time periods.
1993	One is to include corporate dummy variable of the intercept and see whether it's T ratio or significantly different, is, sorry it's greater than two  right or we can use an F test, right, now that F test that's given me that formula in the middle of the page is a very important  test which was developed by a chap called Chow and as a result it become known as the Chow test and it's a, it's a test for parameter constancy, er do we have constant parameters in our model  now it tells you how to compute this Chow test, in this particular case we're only dummying the intercept, the Chow test gives exactly the same results of T tests, right, erm  we won't bother going through it, if you want to go through this er sheet in your own time calculate that, that Chow test and essentially what it involves is splitting with the s the whole sample now into two sub-samples, right, the first sub-sample, right, is peacetime, the second sub-sample wartime, right, and you just compare the residual sum of the squares on the unaccounted for variation, right, between actual and fitted values, just compare the residual sum of squares between these two sub periods, right and if you use the formula that's given there that will come out with exactly the same result, well in actual fact you can square, if you square the F statistic you get  calculating one formula you will get T value, got from er the right, the er, the sheet goes on to say how we can er use dummy variables in slightly more complicated ways, right, we could see actually see whether the income or price elasticities of demand changed.
1993	Right, what  what we'll do is I mean we can confuse the Chow test looking at the residual sum of squares er from each of these sums as the regressions on sub samples, comparing them with the residual sum of squares on a regressionary of the whole sample and the will actually do it for us.
1993	Right, so it's one I want to, I didn't get time to do last week was to tell you where you specify that you want to perform a Chow test, right, and the will generate both of  both of Chow's tests with  one, the first one is where we've got enough observations in each sub sample, right, to estimate the regression, right, however, you may, you may detect and figure there is some structural change right at the end of your er sample of observations or alternatively right at the beginning.
1993	Always use the F statistics unless there are circumstances in which you can't, right if the doesn't generate an F statistic, then you will just have to use the L M version.
1993	Ho however that won't be the case for all erm programs we use, right, as a result we will need to know how to use er T tables  tables and  tables.
1993	Let's just say that we are forming a T test on an estimated coefficient and we want to know whether T ratio will be generated on the is significantly different from zero.
1993	If you are not too bothered erm, if you don't know a priori where the break comes, you can just split the sample size in half and just estimate erm an equation for each, not less, you won't but the will, if you just specify half the sample size, right, and when it asks for the number of observations  failure or Chow tests you just press the return key and it will use all the remaining observations, right, but when you are doing the empirical work you should always test for structural stability, right, and er either of Chow's tests will, will suffice, right, but if you've got  a very small stock sample where there are fewer observations than there are parameters to be estimated you will have to use Chow's second test  failure.
1993	Right, if you just want to come out of there and we'll just have a look at the plot of the residuals, if you plot the residuals  the test for serial correlation there  well the test for serial correlation, right, and try and determine whether there's a auto regressive structure to those parameters and I think Steve  was talking to you about er auto regressions, so what the is doing essentially, it is getting the residuals from the model  raised and it's regressing them  right on the residuals in the previous period, right, and it's testing whether this parameter row, right, is significantly different from zero  right, now if this is, if row is significantly different from zero, let's say it's nought point six, that implies the residuals in T are not independent of the residuals in T minus one.
1993	Right, so, you know, there's no econo-matrixes by no means the science and you can essentially get the to er tell the story that you want simply by choosing er critical values but nevertheless we've re probably be reasonably confident in our estimate, particularly if those estimates, we'll just go back to them, er the er display the regression results again,display them again but those coefficients are elasticities, right, they're cored with our a priori reasoning  right, we put ah, unit elasticity, you may want to test the hypothesis that the elasticity on erm the income variable, that income elasticity is significant given one, just generate a T ratio in the hypothesis value being one instead of zero, as in a normal T test, right, and that coefficient point nine five is sufficiently close to one, by looking at the standard error  to er  further that is an estimate of one  you've got very inelastic er demand erm for the, the textiles, that coefficient, is that the time, I can't believe it if that's all, oh no that's eight, don't worry
1993	When I was working at British Airways we used to do a lot of technical training and erm it was sort of on er airline regulation, stuff like that and you could always tell the activists cos they didn't really want to  all they wanted to do was to get on the and actually trying out things out themselves, they  piece of furniture the activists don't want to read the instructions, they want to start putting it together and then they'd learn from actually putting it together rather than them reading the instructions and  regulation training you could always tell the activist cos they sort of always like chopping every bit, they just want to  they just want to get on the and start inputting numbers and they'll actually learn, they, they prefer to do that and then somebody can come round and help them out when they get into trouble rather than some of the other  which perhaps like to more  up front and that's the activist.
1993	for Apple Macintosh erm  it must have been about three or four years ago.
1993	The increased use of has led to a dramatic rise in the production of paper records.
1993	Store systems use this data to locate pricing information, calculate automatically multi-buy discounts, collect data for sales and stock accounting, perform inventory control and automated ordering, produce item-by-item profit and loss analysis, and identify the items that have attracted greatest customer demand.
1993	Many practices use aided design/drafting (CAD/CADD) systems, and an increasing number use virtual reality systems to design and ‘test’ building schemes.
1993	As document image processing (DIP), involving the use of optical scanners, mass storage devices and networked , becomes a more common way to store paper information new problems will arise, because even those strategic documents and the paper products derived from the operational data will exist only in digital form.
1993	Does an electronic record consist of the record, the system in which it was created, its data structure, a definition of its purpose, associated hardware and software?
1993	He argues that the ‘system itself is an integral part of the record’(Morelli 1993: 88).
1993	In Sweden these potential documents ‘which could be made available by the possibilities to combine and search through information using techniques were official documents’(ibid.).
1993	In the case of major company resources it is fair to say that the very large companies invest millions in their systems and they expect these systems to have a life span of at least a decade.
1993	The greatest threat at the moment to the preservation of data resources is lack of a business case and the proliferation of high-powered stand-alone or ‘negatively networked’ in organisations.
1993	The belief that it would be possible to maintain old hardware in operational order for use by future historians is utopian.
1993	Efforts to preserve a Besm6, which was the last indigenous supercomputer made by the Russians by the British Conservation Society, indicate some of the problems.
1993	It is a commonplace that have the potential to revolutionise the way we communicate; perhaps less commonplace, because less obvious, that because our starting-point is our existing methods and practices, we can be very slow to adapt to the 's potential and find radically new ways of working.
1993	Much of computer-based activity, perhaps the bulk of it, consists of making the powerful new technology behave as closely as possible to the way the world used to be before the age.
1993	Of course the also offers archivists and historians more powerful tools than were previously available for searching documents and retrieving information.
1993	The selection of documents to be saved for posterity is as essential as it has been for the last 30 years; it is not so much that cannot store everything (storage capacities are continuing to develop exponentially), as the consideration that to conserve everything makes the past unmanageable and impenetrable.
1993	‘For example, while concepts relating to the forms, design, and control of paper documents may be used to assist in the design and control of input and display screens in a system, management of underlying information may require a radically different approach.
1993	The present paper has, therefore, two main aims: first, to consider some of the ways in which historians use records and how this might (but probably won't) affect the storage of documents by their creators, record managers and archivists; and second, to consider some of the legal, institutional and cultural constraints on electronic archiving in central UK government.
1993	How, for example, does one allow access to such material by genealogists, many of whom will be illiterate, unfamiliar with research strategies and only interested in tiny potions of vast data sets?
1993	At the same time, the storage of information on systems can be an atomistic rather than an hierarchical phenomenon; horizontal rather than vertical.
1993	Rather than being stored in clusters of papers in files, the layers related intellectually in a hierarchical manner, systems often save individual papers on the same level as discrete entities.
1993	It is unlikely that IT managers will wish to migrate such large amounts of dead material across systems.
1993	But how do we ensure that ‘long-term’ storage media are usable after the elapse of such a period of time, and how would the PRO or departments cope with accessing and appraising such a vast amount of material to make a selection?
1993	It is also conceivable that some constraints might have to be placed upon communications within networks.
1993	There is no reason why systems should not have these features but only if they are designed into them.
1993	After all, the whole emphasis of the revolution of recent decades as been a movement away from central control and direction to dispersed user sovereignty.
1993	General guidance in computing in government is the responsibility of the Central and Telecommunications Agency (CCTA) but even they can only advise not command.
1993	The PRO is not, therefore, in a position to issue directives about standards, or to advocate the use of particular systems, as the Canadians do with IMOSA (National Archives of Canada 1991).
1993	Given that procurement is also completely devolved upon departments, and even sub-sections of departments, the issue of standards becomes a difficult one.
1993	Getting professionals to co-operate with record managers, departmental records staff and the PRO on imbedding archival requirements in IT systems becomes even more complex.
1993	Issues of who pays, when and why, are becoming central to archiving.
1993	DROs are not likely to have very great access to the more confidential and high-status activities where many of the most advanced systems are being introduced.
1993	The PRO's attempts to work through DROs in order to gain control over records in government may be doomed to failure because of the latters’ lack of clout and expertise.
1993	This is in contrast to the relatively high esteem in which data and information management is currently held, and if we are optimistic we might hope that by associating work on systems with the control of paper, we might raise the DROs’ prestige within government.
1993	One might be rather less charitable and argue that the lack of interest reflects a general lack of awareness.
1993	Most of the information that we record, process and transact and most of our reporting finds its creation within the comfortable soft world of a .
1993	It is seen as an effective means of business communication where relevant staff have access to a network.
1993	When an employee comes into the workplace, s/he no longer opens the paper mail first but will turn on the and read what messages have been left overnight or since the last viewing.
1993	An investigation undertaken in the past few years by the United Nations found that ‘…in the majority of reporting agencies, staff…have chief responsibility for management policies relating to e-mail communications…
1993	that none of the material on the agencies’ systems (as described above) are records; and,
1993	any record material on the systems had been saved by staff printing them out into paper copy thus rendering the held versions only reference copies in a convenient medium.
1993	that the agencies staff were not necessarily being advised to save all records on paper and the process was unmanaged and selective; and,
1993	Disadvantages include handwriting as an obstruction to understanding, the element of personal ‘ownership’ which discourages the release of the book to some central point at the time of completion and so the sharing of data therein; the primitive linking of support data (anything from staples to sticky tape) with the accompanying disincentive to completeness and tendency to data loss (e.g. through sticky tape perishing); some support data presented even more of a problem, such as photographs and outsize print out which led to separate support folders to the actual laboratory notebook.
1993	With over 10 million users on 1.5 million connected by 1993, finding your way around does need some formal system and help.
1993	Devised by the University of Minnesota, it is a way of short cutting the routes through Internet which can also take advantage of using other host which are less busy (e.g. one in a different time zone).
1993	software is not yet an explicit part of the custodial mandate of the museum establishment and there is a growing alarm at the historical implications of this exclusion.
1993	One of the first tasks, then, is to locate software in the artefactual landscape.
1993	hardware, as a category of object, is seemingly unproblematic.
1993	It is the physical stuff of systems and falls painlessly into the custodial universe of conventional object-centred curatorship.
1993	Software, a term in general use by the early 1960s, is usually defined negatively, that is to say, a component of systems distinct from hardware.
1993	The Oxford Dictionary of Computing (1986) defines software as ‘a generic term for those components of a system that are intangible rather than physical’.
1993	Banks, required to retain records for audit purposes, were advised in the US in the early 1980s that no archived magnetic medium over three years old should be regarded as reliable.
1993	In 1989 the Science Museum, with the British Society, founded the Conservation Society dedicated to the restoration and preservation of historic and to the capture of operational know-how of computing machines.
1993	One way forward presently being explored by the Conservation Society is to simulate early hardware on present-generation using the restored original as a benchmark.
1993	The technique seems to offer a form of logical immortality as languages used for the simulations become increasingly machine-independent.
1993	The progress made in this field at the Science Museum would have been unaffordable without the voluntary efforts and expertise of Conservation Society's members.
1993	Despite the formidable obstacles that face a fully-fledged software preservation programme there is at least one modest but significant programme of software acquisition that is technically achievable and that has affordable resource implications, namely, software for personal —‘shrink-wrapped’ consumer software as well as custom-written special applications software.
1993	Acquiring working specimens of significant volume-production personal since 1977, and their variant upgrades, is still a realistic acquisition objective.
1993	Section 723, ‘Use of for company records’, permits recording ‘otherwise than in a legible form, so long as the recording is capable of being reproduced in a legible form’.
1993	Organisations therefore need to ensure adequate procedures are in place to enable such maintenance, including the retention of such items as the programs, manuals and instructions in use when the record was originally stored.
1993	Under English evidential law, specific provisions are laid down for the submission and use of records in court.
1993	In common law jurisdictions, the main obstacle to the general admissibility of records is the ‘hearsay rule’:
1993	Generally, whether records fall under this rule depends on the information contained within the record and the purpose for using such information as evidence.
1993	The main situations under which records avoid the hearsay rule are:
1993	Where the records have been classified as ‘real evidence’; eg. when are operating in a simple mechanistic way as automatic recording systems, for example an automated radar tracking system and a breath-testing machine, rather than as complex analytical tools (see The Statute of Liberty [1968]2 All ER 195).
1993	English law has special provisions to allow for records to be admitted, however, it is currently uncertain whether the conditions apply to all evidence or only when admitted as hearsay.
1993	‘In any civil proceedings a statement contained in a document produced by a shall…be admissible as evidence of any fact stated therein of which direct oral evidence would be admissible…’
1993	That the document containing the statement was produced by the during a period over which the was used regularly to store or process information for the purposes of any activity regularly carried on over that period, whether for profit or not, by any body, whether corporate or not, or by any individual;
1993	That over that period there was regularly supplied to the in the ordinary course of those activities information of the kind contained in the statement or of the kind from which the information so contained is derived;
1993	That throughout the material part of that period the was operating properly or, if not, that any respect in which it was not operating properly or was out of operation during that part of that period was not such as to affect the production of the document or the accuracy of its contents; and,
1993	That the information contained in the statement reproduces or is derived from information supplied to the in the ordinary course of those activities.
1993	To satisfy the court that these conditions have been met, it is necessary to obtain either oral testimony or, in the vast majority of cases, a signed statement from the person that occupies ‘a responsible position in relation to the management of the activities for the purposes of which the was used’(s.5(4)).
1993	Overall, commentators have noted that the draftsman of the Civil Evidence Act 1968 would seem to have confused issues concerning the weight or value that should be given to evidence, with that of its admissibility to court.
1993	Some commentators have even called for evidence to be no longer treated as ‘hearsay’; replacing such controls with:
1993	‘guidelines and codes of practice (perhaps eventually having legally enforceable weight) aimed at ensuring an objectively high standard of reliability and security’(Castell 1991: 98).
1993	The Law Commission is currently considering recommendations to alter the legislation to more accurately reflect the position of in modern business.
1993	In crime cases, the admissibility of evidence is subject to section 69 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 and sections 23 and 24 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988.
1993	In a recent House of Lords decision,R v Shephard 16 December 1992, concerning s.69(1) (b) of PACE requiring a statement showing ‘that at all material times the was operating properly’, Lord Griffiths stated that the nature of the oral evidence that needed to be provided varied according to the complexity of the and its operation.
1993	It was felt that it would rarely be necessary to call a expert, since in the majority of cases it would be sufficient to have someone that was familiar with the operation of the .
1993	However, the case also stated that the s.69 conditions apply to all records, whether real or hearsay:
1993	'…if the prosecution wish to rely on a document produced by a they must comply with s.69 in all cases.’
1993	Overall, getting records submitted as evidence in court is only the first aspect of the evidential requirements companies need to address when implementing an electronic documentation system; getting the court to accept the contents as adequate proof, or a good record, is an even more important consideration.
1993	to the question whether or not the information…was supplied to the relevant …contemporaneously with the occurrence or existence of the facts…; and
1993	An additional potential issue with regard to the weight (and sometimes even ‘admissibility’) given to evidence is the best evidence rule.
1993	This interpretation could be applied to records, although some commentators have noted that where a document has undergone processing, as well as recording, it will not apply.
1993	Such differences in approach to evidence has been seen by international organisations as a potential obstacle to the adoption of information technology.
1993	In 1985, a UN Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) report was published, entitled:The legal value of records .
1993	‘Almost all of the countries that replied to the questionnaire appeared to have legal rules which were at least adequate to permit the use of evidence and to permit the court to make the evaluation necessary to determine the proper weight to be given to the data’(A/CN.9/265, p.21).
1993	In 1981 the Council of Europe passed a Recommendation calling for harmonisation of evidential rules with respect to the admissibility of records.
1993	Some countries, such as France and Luxembourg, have revised their evidential rules to remove any unnecessary obstacles to the use of records.
1993	Within West European, the legislation in some countries covers manual records (eg. France and The Netherlands), while others are restricted to data.
1993	Data security is more closely linked with data protection, being a part of the requirements of adequate data protection, but it also covers issues of crime, as well as ensuring that systems are protected from physical disasters.
1993	This principle is concerned with the collection of data, often a manual operation carried out separate from the process.
1993	Such measures involve different aspects: physical security, such as the security of disk storage facilities, from flood as well as unauthorised access; software security, such as maintaining a log of all failed access requests; and, operational security, for example with regard to work data being taken home by employees, and periodic data protection audits of the systems.
1993	Article 2 will extend data protection legislation to cover manual filing systems as well as data;
1993	Cross-fertilisation with publishers, government printing offices, and the industry is essential but likely to be ineffective until the historical profession gets its own house in order and begins to include its computer-literate members fully into the fold.
1993	At present, the acquisition, development, and dissemination of methods and the creation of useful machine-readable data are not given anywhere the same credit or standing as traditional forms of research and publication despite the fact that the latter have no greater claim on scholarship and far less a claim on relevance.
1993	The vast majority of literate historians are far less adventuresome and stick more closely to techniques taken from our cousins in the social and behavioural science.
1993	High-speed networks and the relative cost of producing machine-readable information forced isolated communities and platforms to talk to one another; representatives from Apple and IBM have even been seen together around the same table.
1993	Only by making our processing needs known can we expect them to be catered for by the and data creation industries.
1993	The alternative strategy — historians providing training from within their own departments — is no less problematic.
1993	Moreover, historians who are teaching methods are under the same pressures as their counterparts in humanities computing departments to justify their activities.
1993	But while the humanities computing people dress up training in terms of bits and bytes, historians mystify it by talking about fuzzy data, source criticism, and subjectivity.
1993	In the event, historians’ needs and thus the role that the should play in the classroom are overlooked.
1993	Indeed, defining the ’ role in the classroom was a second problematic area encountered by the international meeting.
1993	A large majority agreed a central role for the and this underpinned the applications and methods approach ultimately adopted in the core curriculum.
1993	A small rump felt that might be employed to deliver information otherwise inaccessible to history students.
1993	In this guise, the 's role was to elaborate some of the issues which emerged in a course in which historical themes, not methods were the central focus.
1993	In this guise, the 's role was to deliver machine-readable information that would supplement that normally found by students in printed form or received by them in the shape of lectures and seminars.
1993	The strategy which envisages the as a sophisticated delivery system for information similar in fundamental respects to the library, is ideal for undergraduates.
1993	The bulk of our students require training which they can use to advantage at interview or in post with an accounting firm, commercial venture, publishing house, or wherever else they end up.
1993	Hopefully what will emerge from the tensions which are apparent in the community interested in providing historians with training is a tripartite approach.
1993	Some training in methods and applications should be required for all university students irrespective of their subject, and this should be provided by a service teaching department.
1993	At the rather more advanced end, our small community of postgraduate history students requires training in the methods and applications that are appropriate to historical research.
1993	In addition, let us encourage colleagues to integrate machine-readable data and exercises into their thematic courses.
1993	Having filled their methods requirements outlined above, students will neither shrink from the challenge that such components hold forth nor demand rudimentary applications training from their history teachers.
1993	There are other reasons to support initiatives for using the as a means of delivering subject-specific information.
1993	An increasing number of journals, monographs, and reference materials will only be available in machine-readable form as high speed networks enable hard-pressed university institutions to curtail drastically the escalating cost of their paper library provision.
1993	The rest of our students need a general training organized perhaps especially for humanities students.
1993	By organizing training for liberal arts students generally, significant economies of scale can be achieved.
1993	Here in the UK there is an impressive array of humanities scholarship which actively employs in innovative and fruitful ways.
1993	In the recent research selectivity exercise, major contributions to methods and the creation of publicly available datasets which emanated from within history departments across the country, counted for little if anything.
1993	I am equally unhappy about those two well tried pieces: ‘What I did with my Database on my Summer Vacation’, and ‘Pedagogy and Paradox: Teaching, Learning, and the ’.
1993	Accordingly, where humanities scholars have engaged the in text creation and analysis, they have done so in a sophisticated way.
1993	Are humanities scholars alone interested in applying technologies to texts?
1993	This reflects the expansion of the use of from mass storage and number crunching to take in all forms of human communication.
1993	Not only do new tools present them with challenges and opportunities but the very material they store and make available to the public is undergoing radical change as more and more records are produced solely in electronic form.
1993	The archivists are more concerned with the processes of acquiring and documenting data than in preserving systems.
1993	Although microfilm will remain for the foreseeable future by far the more acceptable medium of preservation, as a versatile aid to the scholar the image is far in advance.
1993	and computer-assisted photography can also provide enhancement of the texts themselves, of course.
1993	In both cases, the conservation studio begins by producing a videotape from the electronic camera, which is then digitised and used on an image-processing to enhance the image.
1993	The physical survival of discs, and of the hardware and software appropriate to reading them, has been tackled by other organisations, including the Public Record Office, and we are grateful to be able to draw on their experience.
1993	Early tapes and discs are going to be, to say the least, challenging.
1993	But where, among the discs and tapes, will be the evidence of his own reflections and afterthoughts, or the signs of intervention by other members of the office or household?
1993	A further 6% is spent on , telecommunications and other IT hardware and software.
1993	The Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) was set up this year by the higher education funding councils (HEFCs) as a successor body to the Board and the Information Systems Committee (ISC).
1993	In the past a social science environment existed in which there were (a) users and (b) non-computer users.
1993	users did quantitative analyses and specialised in using the Archive-type of information.
1993	This is no longer possible; everyone now uses .
1993	The economists Nelson and Winter in their Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change (1982) describe this information as ‘organisational routine’, and have likened it to the information codified in programs.
1993	First, a nineteenth century example based on the information-intensive insurance industry, and second, a high-tech example from the recent industry.
1993	Finally, a third revolution took place when punched cards were replaced by electronic records in the 1960s.
1993	The effect of new technology was to automate and de-skill many of the clerical tasks, as more and more routine was taken over by punched card machines and later by .
1993	In the case of the latter, the embedded knowledge is well documented in the formal requirements and specifications of programs, although I know of no active programs to preserve this information.
1993	Later, punched-card and technology made this an entirely mechanical process.
1993	ICL was created in 1968 as a ‘national champion’ firm in a government inspired merger which brought together all of the then existing British mainframe firms.
1993	As an inducement to the merger, the Government provided a £13.5 million grant for the development of a new range to compete with the then best selling System/360 family sold by IBM.
1993	Both the ICL New Range and the IBM 360 projects have been the subject of historical studies, the former at a strategic level (Campbell-Kelly 1989) and the latter in very much more detail (Pugh 1991).
1993	The ICL New Range was by far the largest R&D project ever under taken in the UK.
1993	users, unfortunately, attach a singular importance to manuals and they constitute much of the offerings that arrive at unwilling archives, who would soon drown in manuals if the flood were not turned back.
1993	New technology arrived for manuals in the late 1970s with the use of microfiche as an alternative to hard copy.
1993	At the time of writing, documentation is making the transition to CD-ROM which will eliminate the physical space problem, greatly mitigate access, but it is not clear that the archiving of manuals will serve any useful purpose, other than to satisfy the cravings of the occasional buff with an obsessive interest in the technology.
1993	The codification of knowledge into software, does however, suggest an intriguing new source for the future that is not yet being effectively captured and archived.
1993	The Board (the predecessor of the ISC-UFC) funded an additional support post at Manchester to help users to access the data online and to develop the online service, for example by implementing specialist software for the Special Workplace and Migration Statistics, and to produce documentation and provide research support.
1993	Part of the task of the Census Dissemination Unit has been to encourage academics who may not be literate to use the data.
1993	The situation has improved immensely since 1966, when the Small Area Statistics were only available on punched cards with no software, but many academics are still wary of , particularly those who were trained before they were widely available.
1993	There are certain advantages to the PC version; it is menu-driven and people do not have to learn any system to be able to use it.
1993	PC SASPAC is therefore not useful to someone who will want to study low-level data for a large number of counties, though it is suitable for someone who is only interested in one or two and not fond of !
1993	This often happens, for example, when a research assistant pulls information off for a less literate academic.
1993	However, the Census Microdata Unit staff, including a officer and a research associate, will be doing evaluative work on the samples when they are loaded and usable.
1993	The focus of this paper is an examination of the extent to which the recent developments in the use of in history teaching and research have prepared historians for the study of history in the future.
1993	Yet would he use a PC or a Notebook for such a document, and if so would he edit it as he re-read the text and his thoughts on the subject became more succinct?
1993	Over the last ten years the use of in the work of historians has increased dramatically.
1993	This development is undoubtedly due to the greater accessibility that personal have brought to computing in terms of cost, ease of use and reduced dependence on others.
1993	Those that still persist in the belief that the use of in the study of history equates solely to quantification are about as out of date as the dinosaur-like machines available to the computer-using pioneers of the 1970s.
1993	It is true that the acceptance of computing is still greater in research rather than teaching, but it must be said that the latter holds great potential, some of which, hopefully, will be unleashed through the injection of much-needed resources via schemes such as the in Teaching Initiative (CTI) and the Teaching and Learning Training Project (TLTP).
1993	Aided Learning (CAL) also places high demands on access to pre-processed machine-readable source materials.
1993	Not only was the advent of computing perhaps rather longer and more protracted than in some other disciplines, but invariably it is the case that the very nature of application in history is rather different, and it is this difference that lies at the root of the oncoming problem.
1993	This contrasts with non-historians for whom the data they use are generated from the very start of the research process, either via questionnaire or some other survey method, with analyses in view.
1993	For the UK we are informed that the Public Record Office (PRO) has developed a output to laser disc (COLD) system for the storage of electronic records, yet we have no idea of how many or what categories of records are being preserved (Higgs 1992).
1993	The same is known to be true of the reel-to-reel tapes favoured by the older mainframe .
1993	Without wishing to be demeaning, literacy and competence is not particularly high on the list of archival training.
1993	They were mounted on large mainframe for batch processing using a variety of packages and high level languages of which SPSS and Fortran dominated the social science world from which historians learnt so much.
1993	The desktop grew in power and user friendliness until it was increasingly hard to tell apart from the workstation.
1993	The meter reader punches readings direct into a hand held Husky .
1993	Elsewhere in the system is a based upon telemetry (e.g. electronic measures of flows, pressures etc) so that a complaint of water failure can be related to the supply network with accuracy, and relevant teams of engineers called out.
1990	Pat, divorced, but living her own distinct life, was an executive with a company in London, a new feature on the industrial scene but already well established.
1990	His bookmaking activities in the company were even reasonably harmless signs of his eccentricities.
1990	Ken was in one of his usual moods trying to get his mental working — does he ignore them brusquely or does he make one of his faces and willingly sign an autograph?
1979	on the lighthousc .
1988	This was the case even before the advent of electronic ; a ‘classical’ example is the integration of eqn (11.28) to give the Blasius profile, Fig. 11.2.
1988	However, modern obviously enable problems of much greater variety and complexity to be tackled.
1988	The traditional approach, essential before the days of high-powered , was to proceed algebraically as far as possible and resort to numerical integration only when there was no alternative; the Blasius profile integration again provides an example.
1988	For example, supposing that the flow investigated becomes more complicated than might be expected because of an instability, this fact would be discovered not by a stability analysis but by the observation, in the laboratory or on the , that a complicated flow occurred.
1988	Indeed, except for flows at untypically low Reynolds number, even the most powerful current cannot handle all the data needed for a full numerical analysis of turbulent motion.
1993	Every building seems designed to house desks and .
0000	Increasingly, the process of clearing is done electronically rather than manually, the information to debit or credit individuals' accounts being sent down the line to the  various branches by .
0000	Direct debits, standing orders and debit-card payments are cleared entirely by .
0000	Would there be any drawbacks of a completely automated system of clearing, whereby the branch of a bank into which a cheque was paid simply fed the information into a nationwide and the then (a) debited the account at the branch on which it was drawn and (b) for clearing purposes added the amount to the total paid from the one bank to the other on that day?
1992	Not ink and nibs, but typewriter cartridges and continuous-feed paper…
1992	There was a , let's call him Mac .
1994	I was chatting to the team doctor and secretary and I told them I was a Leeds United supporter, and I kept up with the Leeds news via the network (spread the word;-)).
1994	Subject: question
1994	the then encodes the file, that is the screen scrolls through loads of spurious characters stating with ‘begin' and ending in ‘end’.
1994	Subject: FFL/scan/Re: question
1994	It doesnt really matter as Gifs are not specific, so you can upload them to any suitable gfx area, just let us know what directory they go to, then we can find them!
1994	Sorry for whinging, but when I get onto the and it says ‘8 new messages’ I think Oh goody!
1994	But then find out that they are all to do with stuff that I don't understand and so therfore cannot enjoy.
1994	illiterate and proud of it
1993	All you need is a (of some description), a modem (cheap n slow is ok) and a local BBS which has Email.
1993	If you have a …youre half way there…if not you could get a cheap Amiga500 or 600 for about 200 quid.
1993	It's a sort of nerd's version of the kind of thing they hand out free with Shoot! every now and then, only you typeset it instead of using crayons.
1993	Well this year has been a placement year in the middle of my Studies Degree so I'm returning to Derby Uni at the end of September for my final year.
1993	Tuesday comes and I'm all set to head down when diaster strikes (stupid they never do what you tell them to) and the trip is cancelled.
1993	I hear he's fond of his .
1993	For most people nowadays, any mention of conjours up vague images of more or less two things: either Sonic the Hedgehog, or a shapeless, grey, John-Majorish boredom.
1993	What saves computing from being as big a social embarrassment as accountancy, tax inspecting and supporting Manchester United is the fact that it's possible to make contact with other Leeds fans at home and abroad by means of the vast electronic networks which interconnect thousands of right round the world.
1993	Forget all the tv ads about TNT overnight delivery to Japan — networks deliver messages over lunch.
1993	Electronic mailing lists like this can easily be infiltrated by other supporters, but thankfully segregation isn't necessary, and so far policemen on horses have yet to be called in to arrest terminals (or even Sonic the Hedgehog) for causing an affray.
1993	After that, you can expect Leeds mail to come surging down the wires to your every day of the week, and aim to join in the talk whenever you can.
1993	He's been to uni, and, I hear from the list, is into , so yeah, who knows?
1993	We have recently set up a electronic news server devoted to Leeds United which allows fans to make contact with other Leeds fans both home and abroad, via the vast electronic networks which connect worldwide.
1993	People write letters, ‘post’ them to a central in Oxford which then distributes the article to all the subscribed users.
1993	Maybe Mrs Dorigo can persuade Wilko to 1) get on the list or 2) get a network and get on the list????
1993	Even if its one of the juniors pissing around on their and modem.
1993	I switched on my and pissed around on it — and put the new PSB's CD on in the background.
1993	It was now 4.38ish…the vide-printer on grandstand starts about then, so I abandoned the , sat next to the tv.
1993	haaland is a central defender and sundgot is an attacker; both talented — though i value fat-frank far higher than sundgot. so two vikings at forest and three (!) at oldham — so norway's tally just keeps growing as the biggest contigent of non-english players — which is quite amazing — for years we had just the odd-player like aage hareide (man city and norwich), einar aass (nott forest — i imagine his english team-mates had some fun with his name:-]) and erik the viking at spurs but nowadays you need a to have control…
0000	staff at the Royal Bank of Scotland have voted overwhelmingly in favour of a series of one day strikes.If they decide to take industrial action it will result in the shutdown of the Bank's system and the closure of their Cashline network.
1992	A respondent from a large practice took the pragmatic view that it was only a matter of time before a fraud took place on a scale which made the current level of claims pale into insignificance, making the introduction of a cap imperative.
1993	Equipment levels are high with ABS braking standard on all models along with variable power-assisted steering, multi-function trip , fully-adjustable seating position, all-round electric windows, air conditioning with controls for driver and passenger, remote-control central door locking, a six-speaker hi-fi system and an anti-theft alarm system.
1993	The engine is also fitted with cylinder-by-cylinder knock sensing, feeding information to the engine management , which controls both ignition and fuel injection systems.
1993	All V6-powered Safranes come equipped with Renault's controlled suspension (optional on 2-litre versions) which endows the car with ‘active aerodynamics’ by lowering the body by 15mm at motorway speeds.
1993	The pressure of the air springs is adjusted constantly by the via one inflation solenoid valve per spring and a single deflation valve to maintain body level at all times.
1993	The twin-tube dampers are also controlled by the system's to select one of three characteristics: comfort, normal or sport.
1993	It returns to normal setting below 50 mph or if the decides that road conditions have become too rough
1993	The CCS gathers its information from various sources including steering, brake and engine sensors and accelerometers.
1993	The V6 model adds: alloy wheels, metallic paint, electrically adjustable steering column, wood veneer interior trim, 4×20 watt hi-fi with RDS, 4-speed automatic gearbox, electrically demisted windscreen, heated front seats, controlled suspension, cruise control and electric adjustment of both front and rear seats.
1993	The ABS is integral with the hydraulic valve block.
1993	When a ship is in distress, international rescue co-ordinators can search the and identify other ships in the immediate area able to provide emergency service.
1993	It was the luck of the draw which transported Trans-Tasman Sales Manager, Chris Ryan and Programmer, Paul Ecclestone from Melbourne and Sydney respectively, on the trip of a lifetime.
1989	We have introduced lap top into Ireland and the USA for our sales team, enabling them to keep in touch with their customers and their own offices.
0000	A system of mediated communications enables academics, researchers and other course participants to contribute to projects from wherever they are based and gives a strong international dimension to all the activities.
0000	The Henley Extended Learning Programme — HELP (see p9)— uses mediated communication to facilitate the above activities internationally.
0000	They use mediated communication via The Henley Extended Learning Programme — HELP (see p9)— as part of the learning research process.
0000	The Library forms part of the College's network system and is an active working unit geared closely to the work of the College.
0000	There are two teaching rooms equipped with Wang personal .
0000	Each syndicate room and conference room has a personal .
0000	All these are linked on a Local Area Network (LAN), giving access to a variety of software packages as well as electronic mail.
0000	The College has links with the International Business Schools Users Group whose aims include making the use of IT more effective in business.
0000	All research programme members are linked via HELP, a system of mediated communications.
0000	The College has the capability to develop multi-media learning materials utilising Based Training and other approaches.
0000	HALT is developing computer-based materials including CDi as well as mediated communications.
1993	Scotmid was among the first in the field to introduce bar-code readers to their store checkouts, and the use of stocktaking brings them soundly into the 1990s.
1993	The name documentation is deceiving as there is very little paperwork and the department's tools are and the software packages MINISIS and QUIXIS.
1993	The NMS is accountable for its collections and decided to use databases to store this vital information.
1990	articles, papers, programmes, policy papers (marketing/manpower etc)
1990	ICL completed their donation of equipment by giving another two p.c.s and a further printer, so that the ICL room is now a well-established and valuable resource for undergraduates in particular.
1990	Susan Purver, the assistant librarian, has been appointed officer to oversee the room.
1990	Miss Susan Purver has added to her role of Assistant Librarian that of College Of ficer.
1990	Still, the A. S. M. can provide information about Somervillians wherever.
1990	In this vein, the M.C.R. is grateful to the College for the provision of new refrigerators, for its pledge of a new and for its help in so many ways.
1990	She now works as a freelance writer at Palo Alto, California, where her husband does research in Science at Stanford University.
1990	She began work as a graduate trainee with the Bank of England —‘A glorified name for a programmer’— then when the youngest of her three children started school she did a P. G. C. E. course at Durham.
1990	Gillian Murphy (Mrs Seagrave) has three young children and found that her career break made it difficult for her to get back into her chosen field of programming.
1990	Worried local residents still come to the Advice Centre for help with their legal problems, children still play safely in the refurbished Adventure playground, the Work Centre still sells Christmas cards, rugs and wooden toys, adults still learn to read and use at the Education Centre, and the clubs for the blind and the elderly still meet at 44, Nelson Square.
1993	The post-holder will also be involved in the preparations for the next HEFCE research assessment exercise; this will include questions relating to the establishment of a publications database, and candidates for this appointment should therefore be literate.
1993	There are high speed links direct from the School of Geography to the University's mainframe .
1993	JANET facilitates direct access to other university in London, Manchester, Cambridge and elsewhere in the UK and overseas.
1993	A wide range of software is supported, including specialist statistical packages, databases, and software for modelling.
1993	A wide range of software is available including word-processing, spreadsheets, assisted cartographic packages, standard statistical packages, desk-top publishing software, programming languages and several GIS systems.
1992	The need for experiments on awake animals is sometimes questioned on the grounds that the answer could be found by studying isolated cells in dishes or by using instead of real brains.
1992	There are some secrets which isolated cells or cannot reveal.
1992	No one yet knows how to study such disturbance in isolated cells or how to ‘measure and treat’ impaired memory in a .
1991	‘But Doreen was a dab hand at .’
1991	Soon after that he and his sergeant went away carrying the manual of instruction that came with the monster.
1991	Apart from her admittedly efficient knowledge of the intricacies of I'd thought Doreen  rather a nonentity.
1991	At first I didn't know what it was, then I realised it was what Doreen called a ‘floppy disc’, one of those things you store your words with on a .
1987	The treatment tries to concentrate on the physical ideas and interactions involved, rather than on detailed mathematical analysis and results, which are available in the original sources as well as elsewhere in this book: most calculations lead to one or more of the so-called "universal" routes to chaos.
1987	In order  discover more about bifurcations in the system, it is necessary to resort to simulation of the equations.
1987	(6) Finally, and importantly, the study of homoclinic orbits can be undertaken relatively easily and cheaply on a .
1987	Jill wanted to get Bill a birthday present, so she went and found her piggy-bank; she shook it, but there was no noise; she would have to make Bill a present This example comes from work in artificial intelligence (Charniak, 1972) which is concerned with the attempt to translate the significance of ordinary utterances into an explicit representation that might be used by a to produce "intelligent" responses.
1987	Thus, if such an approach were developed, one might hope that all the essential concepts for the analysis of pragmatic phenomena would be traceable to the fundamentals of interaction (for an actual simulation of conversation along these lines see Power, 1979).
1992	It would pay for time on military and research on alternative energy sources and methods of cleaning polluted soil and water.
1992	It is accessed by personal and offers a free, round-the-clock service.
1992	Cultures grown from leaf-yeast samples taken from 23 European cities were counted and analyzed.
1992	If unchecked, carbon dioxide levels will continue to rise to twice their pre-industrial levels by 2028. * A UN study conducted by international scientists has used a simulation of how the planet functions, to predict that the average global temperature will increase between two and six degrees Fahrenheit by 3000AD.
1992	Current research projects include studies of ocean circulation and modelling of the global atmosphere — both important planks of efforts to predict and assess climate change.
1992	Here it will be fed into models where it is expected to provide far more accurate predictions of the effects of deforestation.
1992	Pollutants from burning fuel, such as nitrogen oxide and carbon dioxide are not taken into account in current models of climate change.
1992	Said Professor Hoskins of the University of Reading: "We know that human activities are doing something to the system but models are too crude at present to predict what will happen."
1992	World's first climate-change and information centre
1992	The first dedicated solely to investigating climate change has begun operations at the Meteorological Office's Hadley Centre at Bracknell.
1992	The twin Cray are funded by the Department of the Environment and will allow scientists to experiment with sophisticated models of atmosphere and ocean circulation in considering differing global warming scenarios.
1992	The mark a considerable increase in the calculation capacity available to researchers in the field.
1992	This not only interfered with control room instruments but disabled two back-up systems and knocked out the which normally logs all changes in operations.
0000	According to the FoE's report, Transport and Climate Change, modelling has shown that CO2 emissions must be reduced by 30 per cent, not just stabilized, to protect the environment.
1992	In addition, the hospital will rely on a high-wind turbine to provide around a fifth of its power; it will be enveloped in a plastic membrane to prevent heat loss; a programme will enable it to make the most efficient use of power from various sources (gas, oil, electricity, wind) depending on fluctuations in cost and availability; and heat exchangers and an on-site incinerator will recycle heat.
1992	The authors stress that their proposal, based on simulations, remains "sensitive to many assumptions" , that "serious uncertainties remain" , and that many practical difficulties would have to be overcome.
1992	Two sets of access doors, under control, are supposed to act as an airlock, with only one set open at any one time, thereby preventing any radioactive leakage.
1992	The predictions are based on models of global warming and world food production.
1992	The majority of the colony's 60-80 manufacturers of printed circuit boards for , which use large quantities of CFC-13 as a cleaning agent, have moved operations to Guangdong, southern China, during the last couple of years, according to Charles Chapman, executive director of the Hong Kong Electronics Association.
1992	The company IBM has set up an internal "Environment Council" with a "green senior manager" in every department, in an effort to improve environmental performance.
1992	modelling studies suggest that a reduction of 60-90 per cent in acid rain will be necessary before the area's fish and associated wildlife, including fishing birds, can recover.
1992	A parallel audit of the company's technical record, carried out internally, is believed to have revealed a number of shortcomings, focusing on the low level of use of recycled materials in manufacture.
1992	recycling
1992	Most companies are working on setting up a recycling scheme, according to IBM environmental operations director John Gillett.
1992	Referring to IBM's own plans, Gillett said that details had not yet been worked out, but it was clear that additional plant capacity would be needed to reprocess parts.
1992	In about 18 months IBM would be able to market a with a high content of recycled material, he said.
1992	A central will be programmed to contact the transponders at regular intervals and raise the alarm if the rhinos wander into areas where there is a high risk of poaching.
1992	software bugs threaten safety of UK nuclear power stations
1992	A back-up safety system for the UK's nuclear power station controllers may not work properly because bugs in the software have not been eliminated, according to a former employee of the company that wrote the software.
1992	The information is relayed to a system which can be tapped by SeaWatch's clients, which include governments, the fishing, oil and tourism industries and environmental agencies.
1992	A chip checks voltage levels within the battery, and slows down the recharging process if this increases too rapidly, thereby, according to Innovations, avoiding the danger of explosive gases building up.
1992	In the event, spraying of chemicals to disperse the oil was probably unnecessary, the report says, adding that models used to predict the fate of the oil proved inadequate, as did aerial surveillance equipment.
1992	The research contradicts models predicting a warmer, wetter world as the greenhouse effect develops.
1992	The funds will be used to import safety equipment, including process to make the system easier to operate, additional cooling devices, isolation valves, spare parts and ultrasonic inspection equipment for the pressure vessels.
1992	Car producers will be given access to strong lightweight materials and advanced capacitors originally designed for weapons systems, while the Advanced Research Projects Agency will help design more efficient motors and fuel cells, and the Army Tank Command help on systems.
1994	Oh, your played up, yes, yes, George
1986	At first sight, man-made artefacts like and cars will seem to provide exceptions.
1986	Never mind whether cars and are "really" biological objects.
1986	Physics books may be complicated, but physics books, like cars and , are the product of biological objects — human brains.
1986	Wing specialists don't even understand wings with full mathematical precision: they can predict how a wing will behave in turbulent conditions, only by examining a model in a wind tunnel or a simulation — the sort of thing a biologist might do to understand an animal.
1986	The behaviour of a can be explained in terms of interactions between semiconductor electronic gates, and the behaviour of these, in turn, is explained by physicists at yet lower levels.
1986	But, for most purposes, you would in practice be wasting your time if you tried to understand the behaviour of the whole at either of those levels.
1986	This is why, if we want to  understand the workings of , we prefer a preliminary explanation in terms of about half a dozen major subcomponents — memory, processing mill, backing store, control unit, input-output handler, etc.
1986	"Satellite " might be a fairer name.
1986	It must be costly producing loud ultrasonic pulses, costly in energy, costly in wear and tear on voice and ears, perhaps costly in time.
1986	By comparing the pitch of its cry with the pitch of the returning echo, therefore, the bat (or rather its on-board in the brain) could, in theory, calculate how fast it was moving towards the tree.
1986	But I suspect that really our percept is an elaborate model in the brain, constructed on the basis of information coming from out there, but transformed in the head into a form in which that information can be used.
1986	Wavelength differences in the light out there become coded as "colour" differences in the model in the head.
1986	The type of internal model that it needs, therefore, is one suitable for the internal representation of the changing positions of objects in three-dimensional space.
1986	My point is that the form that an animal's subjective experience takes will be a property of the internal model.
1986	Here is what she typed on the : UMMK JK CDZZ F ZD DSDSKSM S SS FMCV PU I DDRGLKDXRRDO RDTE QDWFDVIOY UDSKZWDCCVYT H CHVY NMGNBAYTDFCCVD D RCDFYYYRM N DFSKD LD K WDWK JJKAUIZMZI UXKIDISFUMDKUDXI  She has other important calls on her time, so I was obliged to program the to simulate a randomly typing baby or monkey: WDLDMNLT DTJBKWIRZREZLMQCO P Y YVMQKZPGJXWVHGLAWFVCHQYOPY MWR SWTNUXMLCDLEUBXTQHNZVJQF FU OVAODVYKDGXDEKRVMOGGS VT HZQZDSFZIHIVPHZPETPWVOVPMZGF GEWRGZRPBCTPGQMCKHFDBGW ZCCF And so on and on.
1986	It isn't difficult to calculate how long we should reasonably expect to wait for the random (or baby or monkey) to type METHINKS IT IS LIKE A WEASEL.
1986	Think about the total number of possible phrases of the right length that the monkey or baby or random could type.
1986	We again use our monkey, but with a crucial difference in its program.
1986	The examines the mutant nonsense phrases, the "progeny" of the original phrase, and chooses the one which, however slightly, most resembles the target phrase, METHINKS IT IS LIKE A  WEASEL.
1986	A second run of the began with the phrase: Y YVMQKZPFJXWVHGLAWFVCHQXYOPY, passed through (again reporting only every tenth generation): Y YVMQKSPFTHWSHLIKEFV HQYSPY YTHINKSPITXISHLIKEFA WQYSEY METHINKS IT ISSLIKE A WEFSEY METHINKS IT ISBLIKE A WEASES METHINKS IT ISJLIKE A WEASEO METHINKS IT IS LIKE A WEASEP and reached the target phrase in generation 64.
1986	In a third run the started with: GEWRGZRPBCTPGQMCKHFDBGW ZCCF and reached METHINKS IT IS LIKE A WEASEL in 41 generations of selective "breeding" .
1986	The exact time taken by the to reach the target doesn't matter.
1986	(enthusiasts may think this unduly slow.
1986	The reason is that  the program was written in BASIC, a sort of baby-talk.
1986	are a bit faster at this kind of thing than monkeys, but the difference really isn't significant.
1986	What matters is the difference between the time taken by cumulative selection, and the time which the same , working flat out at the same rate, would take to reach the target phrase if it were forced to use the other procedure of single-step selection: about a million million million million million years.
1986	Actually it would be fairer just to say that, in comparison with the time it would take either a monkey or a randomly programmed to type our target phrase, the total age of the universe so far is a negligibly small quantity, so small as to be well within the margin of error for this sort of back-of-an-envelope calculation.
1986	Whereas the time taken for a working randomly but with the constraint of cumulative selection to perform the same task is of the same order as humans ordinarily can understand, between 11 seconds and the time it takes to have lunch.
1986	This might make a good science fiction story — The White Cloud, it could be called — but for our purposes a model like the monkey/Shakespeare model is easier to grasp.
1986	We can change our model to take account of this point.
1986	Letters and words are peculiarly human manifestations, so let's make the draw pictures instead.
1986	Maybe we shall even see animal-like shapes evolving in the , by cumulative selection of mutant forms.
1986	In our model, therefore, we must have something equivalent to embryonic development, and something equivalent to genes that can mutate.
1986	There are many ways in which we could meet these specifications in a model.
1986	I shall now describe this model, because I think it is revealing.
1986	If you don't know anything about , just remember that they are machines that do exactly what you tell them but often surprise you in the result.
1986	A list of instructions for a is called a program (this is standard American spelling, and it is also recommended by the Oxford Dictionary: the alternative, "programme" , commonly used in Britain, appears to be a Frenchified affectation).
1986	Embyronic development is far too elaborate a process to simulate realistically on a small .
1986	We must find a simple picture-drawing rule that the can easily obey, and which can then be made to vary under the influence of"genes'.
1986	Textbooks of science often illustrate the power of what they call "recursive" programming with a simple tree-growing procedure.
1986	The starts by drawing a single vertical line.
1986	Figure 2 shows what happens when you tell the to obey exactly the same drawing rule, but going on to various depths of recursion.
1986	Accordingly, we wrap it up in a little procedure, label it DEVELOPMENT, and prepare to embed it in a larger program labelled EVOLUTION.
1986	How shall we represent "genes" in our model?
1986	In real animals and plants there are tens of thousands of genes, but we shall modestly limit our model to nine.
1986	Each of the nine genes is simply represented by a number in the , which will be called its value.
1986	And in the model too, the numerical values of the nine genes only mean something when they are translated into growing rules for the branching tree pattern.
1986	Exactly the same is true of the trees.
1986	Back to the biomorphs, and the ring of 18 possible mutants, of which a representative eight are drawn in Figure 3.
1986	We have our analogue of REPRODUCTION, which, like DEVELOPMENT, we can wrap up in another small program, ready to embed in our big program called EVOLUTION.
1986	This is why, in the model, it is important that the two procedures called DEVELOPMENT and REPRODUCTION are written as two watertight compartments.
1986	DE-XXXX VELOPMENT takes the genes provided by REPRODUCTION in any given generation, and translates those genes into drawing action, and hence into a picture of a body on the screen.
1986	This very high mutation rate is a distinctly unbiological feature of the  model.
1986	The reason for building a high mutation rate into the model is that the whole performance on the screen is for the benefit of human eyes, and humans haven't the patience to wait a million generations for a mutation!
1986	In the models, on the other hand, the selection criterion is not survival, but the ability to appeal to human whim.
1986	The human tells the which one of the current litter of progeny to breed from.
1986	Nothing in my biologist's intuition, nothing in my 20 years"experience of programming , and nothing in my wildest dreams, prepared me for what actually emerged on the screen.
1986	There are games on the market in which the player has the illusion that he is wandering about in an underground labyrinth, which has a definite if complex geography and in which he encounters dragons, minotaurs or other mythic adversaries.
1986	In the evolution game, whether the version or the real thing, the player (or observer) obtains the same feeling of wandering metaphorically through a labyrinth of branching passages, but the number of possible pathways is all but infinite, and the monsters that one encounters are undesigned and unpredictable.
1986	They are exactly as the drew them when they evolved inside it.
1986	Could we dispense with the human eye, and make the itself do the selecting, on the basis of some biologically realistic criterion?
1986	To make the choose phenotypic effects directly, we should have to write a very sophisticated pattern-recognition program.
1986	But they are difficult, "state of the art" programs, needing very large and fast .
1986	Even if such a pattern-recognition program were not beyond my programming capabilities, and beyond the capacity of my little 64-kilobyte , I wouldn't bother with it.
1986	This is a task that is better done by the human eye, together with — and this is more to the point — the 10-giganeurone inside the skull.
1986	It wouldn't be too difficult to make the select for vague general features like, say, tall-thinness, short-fatness, perhaps curvaceousness, spikiness, even rococo ornamentation.
1986	One method would be to program the to remember the kinds of qualities that humans have favoured in the past, and to exert continued selection of the same general kind in the future.
1986	To simulate natural selection in an interesting way in the , we should forget about rococo ornamentation and all other visually defined qualities.
1986	Biomorphs should interact, in the , with a simulation of a hostile environment.
1986	Evolution in the would then really take off, for the conditions would be met for a self-reinforcing "arms race" (see Chapter 7), and I dare not speculate where it would all end.
1986	I shall put the in a shady place in the garden.
1986	The will simultaneously display a range of mutant progeny of the biomorph, differing from it in shape and/or colour pattern.
1986	When a certain number of choices have been logged, the will wipe the screen clean, "breed" from the preferred biomorph and display the next generation of mutant progeny.
1986	I have high hopes that, over a large number of generations, the wild insects will actually cause the evolution, in the , of flowers.
1986	If they do, the flowers will have evolved under exactly the same selection pressure as caused real flowers to evolve in the wild.
1986	There is a popular cliche, usually uttered in the tones Stephen Potter would have called "plonking" , which says that you cannot get out of any more than you put in.
1986	Other versions are that only do exactly what you tell them to, and that therefore are never creative.
1986	I  programmed EVOLUTION into the , but I did not plan "my"
1986	There they were, sitting on the screen, and I couldn't get at them, couldn't decipher their genes.
1986	I delayed switching the off while I racked my brain trying to think of some way of saving them, but there was none.
1986	The point of the story is that even though it was I that programmed the , telling it in great detail what to do, nevertheless I didn't plan the animals that evolved, and I was totally surprised by them when I first saw their precursors.
1986	Does the powerlessness of the programmer to control or predict the course of evolution in the seem paradoxical?
1986	Does it mean that something mysterious, even mystical was going on inside the ?
1986	We can use the model to resolve the paradox, and learn something about real evolution in the process.
1986	Now that I know the genetic formula of my insects, I can reproduce them at will, and I can tell the to "evolve" towards them from any arbitrary starting point.
1986	When you first evolve a new creature by artificial selection in the model, it feels like a creative process.
1986	Some people fondly believe that chess-playing work by internally trying out all possible combinations of chess moves.
1986	They find this belief comforting when a beats them, but their belief is utterly false.
1986	Cumulative selection, whether artificial selection as in the model or natural selection out there in the real world, is an efficient searching procedure, and its consequences look very like creative intelligence.
1986	Technically, all that we are doing, when we play the biomorph game, is finding animals that, in a mathematical sense, are waiting to be found.
1986	The biomorph models make these points well, and they constitute an instructive bridge between human creative processes, such as planning a winning strategy at chess, and the evolutionary creativity of natural selection, the blind watchmaker.
1986	The 18 neighbours of an animal are the 18 different kinds of children that it can give rise to, and the 18 different kinds of parent from which it could have come, given the rules of our model.
1986	In any one generation, according to the rules of the model, it is possible to move only a single step through genetic space.
1986	Admittedly the did use them to calculate  the appropriate genetic formula for every point on the picture.
1986	You can tilt it in any direction, and measure the genetic distance, and hence the minimum evolution time, between any point on the plane and any other (annoyingly, that is not quite true on the page, because the 's printer distorts proportions, but this effect is too trivial to make a fuss about, although it does mean that you will get slightly the wrong answer if you simply count blips on the scale).
1986	To think about this, we now have to relax one of the restrictions that I built into the game: we shall end by seeing why I built that restriction in in the first place.
1986	For those, like me, who are not mathematicians, the can be a powerful friend to the imagination.
1986	You can think of them as the wires leading from a bank of three million photocells (actually three million relay stations gathering information from an even larger number of photocells) to the that is to process the information in the brain.
1986	So in theory a , by comparing the pattern of voltages registered by the voltmeters at all the portholes, could calculate the pattern of obstacles around the fish.
1986	The in the head couldn't cope with the extra distortions that would be introduced if the fish's body were bending and twisting like an ordinary fish.
1984	The and the human mind have different but complementary abilities.
1984	Such a system would demand a truly interactive use of in a way that allows the very different capabilities of the and the human mind to be used to the full.
1984	This process of de-skilling all types of work is supercharged by scientists who were described by Weizenbaum as "being like children with a hammer who view the whole world as a nail."
1984	Larger establishments will have used mainframe for 20 years or more.
1984	A key characteristic of information technology is the decentralisation of   operations — terminals have moved from specialist data processing departments into the rest of the establishment.
1984	Secondly, we have learned how to construct artefacts able to store, retrieve, process and communicate large quantities of information and also artefacts that can take over from humans some design and control decision making (eg computer-aided design systems, control systems, robots).
1984	A number of successful applications of expert systems in medicine, oil exploration and in engineering underline this trend.
1984	We can expect with certainty that there will be in the near future an unprecedented worldwide demand for the development of IT systems such as those listed below: Robots, manufacturing cells, driverless tractors, computer-based controllers, , terminals.
1984	Regional, national and worldwide networks of information systems, such as: networks, networks of data bases, viewdata systems, distributed CAD/CAM systems, banking transaction networks, hotel/transportation/holiday reservation systems.
1984	An increase in so-called crime.
1984	Each profession is given the task of translating its specialised services into a mixture of aids' and do-it-yourself.
1984	Private cars and buses to be replaced by automated minicars and minibuses accessible by credit card, and free of accidents, congestion, and parking problems, being controlled.
1992	Networked facilities are set up into which any number of firms can be hooked.
1992	The above does not purport to be a comprehensive list of the items which need to be agreed before a merger can workselection, retention and dismissal of staff, harmonisation of systems and other equipment, for example, are as likely to prove the sticking point.
1992	Thus shared use of , library and training facilities can be organised regionally or nationwide to a level which individual firms could never hope to attain on their own.
1993	Developments in modern technology may make it possible for three dimensional models of the property to be stored on .
1993	It should be made clear that the right is to extend to wires of a novel kind, eg cables (Trailfinders Ltd v Razuki (1988) 30 EG 59).
1993	This practice is convenient both for the purposes of managing the property (since most managing agents, or their , send out rent demands by reference to quarter days) and for the purpose of calculating the rent (since broken periods can often be avoided).
1993	Since it is often difficult to translate mathematical concepts into words (see London Regional Transport v Wimpey Group Construction [1986]2 EGLR 41 for judicial commendation of algebra), the formula must be checked mathematically either with a calculator or a .
1993	As with index-linked rents, any mathematical formula should be carefully checked by calculator or .
1993	Example 4:6 Rent geared to subrents receivable YIELDING AND PAYING THEREFOR by equal quarterly payments in advance on 1 January 1 April 1 July and 1 October in each year per cent of the net rents which the tenant is entitled to receive for the whole or any part of the demised property and calculated in accordance with the schedule hereto SCHEDULE (1) In this schedule the following expressions have the following meanings:(a) "full rack rental value" means the best rent at which the demised property (or as the case may be the part of the demised property in question) might reasonably be expected to be let in the open market by a willing landlord to a willing tenant (i) in the case of property falling within paragraph (2) below on the terms (other than as to rent or other pecuniary consideration) upon which it is actually occupied (ii) in the case of property falling within paragraph (3) below on the terms (other than as to rent or other pecuniary consideration) of this lease (iii) in the case of property falling within paragraph (4) below on the terms (other than as to rent or other pecuniary consideration) upon which it was last occupied and in any case disregarding the matters set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 34(1) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (as amended) and on the assumption that the rent so determined will be revised every five years  (b) "qualified accountant" means a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales or the Association of Certified Accountants (2) If the tenant lets or permits to be occupied the whole or any part of the demised property in return for any pecuniary consideration other than the full rack rental value thereof as at the date of such letting or permission or in return for no pecuniary consideration then he shall be deemed for the purposes of this schedule to be entitled to receive the full rack rental value thereof determined as at the date of such letting or permission and redetermined as at every fifth anniversary thereof (3) If the tenant himself occupies the whole or any part of the demised property then he shall be deemed for the purposes of this schedule to be entitled to receive the full rack rental value thereof determined as at the date on which he went into occupation and redetermined as at every fifth anniversary thereof (4) If the whole or any part of the demised property remains vacant for three months or more then at the expiry of such period of three months the tenant shall until the same is next occupied be deemed to be entitled to receive the full rack rental value thereof determined as at the date upon which the said period expired and redetermined as at every fifth anniversary thereof (5) The tenant shall one month before the beginning of each quarter (time being of the essence) deliver to the landlord a certificate signed by a qualified accountant showing a true summary of:(a) the gross amount of all rents and licence fees which the tenant is entitled (or deemed to be entitled) to receive in respect of the demised property and each part thereof for that quarter and (b) the amount of any sum included in (a) above which the tenant is entitled to recover from any subtenant or occupier of the whole or any part of the demised property either by way of VAT or by way of service charge in respect of services or works performed or to be performed (6) Subject to paragraph (7) below the net rents shall be the difference between the two amounts shown in the said certificate (7) The net rents shall be determined by a single arbitrator to be appointed by the President for the time being of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors if:(a) the tenant fails to deliver a certificate in accordance with paragraph (5) above (in which case the tenant shall pay interest on the net rents at the rate of…per cent from the quarter day in question until payment) or (b) any dispute or difference arises between the parties in connection with the calculation of the net rents (in which case the arbitrator shall determine the amount of interest if any to be paid by the tenant)(8) The tenant shall permit the landlord or his agent to inspect and take copies of the tenant's books or account or any other document or record (and if necessary the tenant shall procure any print-out) which in the opinion of the landlord or such agent is relevant to the calculation of the net rents and shall bear the costs of such inspection if there shall be any material discrepancy between the certificate delivered by the tenant under paragraph 5 above and the results of such inspection.
1993	The expert's decision will be binding on the parties even if the error is a legal error and it is clear on the face of the award what the error is (Jones v Sherwood Services [1992]1 WLR 277; Nikko Hotels (UK) v MEPC [1991]2 EGLR 103).
1993	In many groups of companies, financial, banking, legal, and other services are provided centrally to the whole group.
1993	In brief, this regime means Newco may be liable to VAT if the vendor's use of (inter alia ) certain business premises or equipment before completion has changed from taxable use to exempt use.
1993	Where Newco is carrying on a trade and incurs capital expenditure after 9 March 1992 in acquiring user rights to software, plant and machinery, capital allowances are available for such expenditure (see s67A Capital Allowances Act 1990).
1993	software licence fees should be deductible as trading expenses if of a revenue nature and incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the trade.
1993	The Target, if part of a larger group, will have depended on the group for certain services (such as accounting and services), which it will now have to provide for itself.
1993	The same problem can arise with finished products such as tools, or personal .
1993	A standard personal which can be used both for business and home purposes (for instance with a standard word processing package) would be a good example.
1992	The most important recent decision, Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60, was first published outside LEXIS eighteen months after the judgment following a complaint from the judge in Nikko Hotels (UK) Ltd v MEPC plc [1991]28 EG 86 that it had not been reported.
1992	Chapter 7 looks at industrial applications in the energy, mining, shipbuilding, construction and industries, where both valuation and technical skills of experts are used to settle issues.
1992	Nikko v MEPC (cited at 2.3.3) applied the principles of Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60 (decided in 1989 and fully discussed at 13.6) to rent review cases.
1992	Another example of a breach of warranty claim is found in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60, discussed in detail at 13.6.
1992	The energy and industries are obvious examples.
1992	Applications of expert determination in the energy and industries are set out in Chapter 7.
1992	Shipbuilding, construction and contracts considered in Chapter 7 use various types of "two-tier dispute resolution" .
1992	This chapter considers the use of expert determination in:(1) energy and mining contracts (7.2);(2) shipbuilding contracts (7.3);(3) construction contracts (7.4);(4) contracts (7.5); which display the following features discussed in Chapter 6:(5) the use of technical experts drawing on expertise not directly associated with valuation;(6) the use of technical experts to act as general dispute resolvers; and (7) the use of "two-tier" dispute resolution procedures.
1992	The judgment in Arco preceded Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60,(decided in December 1989) which, as now applied in Nikko Hotels (UK) Ltd v MEPC plc [1991]28 EG 86, precludes review by the court of the expert's interpretation of the material at issue.
1992	7.5
1992	contracts sometimes provide for experts to determine technical issues such as whether the equipment or software performs in accordance with its specification, or the interpretation of specifications or other related technical documentation.
1992	For instance, in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60, the sale and purchase agreement said that a sales statement prepared by the purchasers was to be reviewed by the vendors' and the purchasers' accountants.
1992	The decision itself is likely to be a brief answer to the question put: for a one-line example see the decision in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60, quoted at 13.6.4.
1992	The current law is contained in the Court of Appeal's judgment in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60, in which the judgment was delivered in December 1989, and Nikko Hotels (UK) Ltd v MEPC plc [1991]28 EG 86 (discussed at 13.6.8).
1992	The current law on speaking and non-speaking decisions is to be found in the Court of Appeal's judgment in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60.
1992	The likely result is that this wording does no more than track the law as laid down in Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60: see 13.6.
1992	The counterpart for expert determination is the line taken by the courts in the recent cases of Jones v Sherwood Services plc [1991]NPC 60 and Nikko Hotels (UK) Ltd v MEPC Ltd  [1991]28 EG 86: see 13.6.
1993	Now that traders no longer have to meet face to face, and can communicate by telephone or , the exchange is not so easy to identify.
1993	Other derivatives markets, such as the financial swaps market  with its standard documentation, or the forex market, with its common equipment, may also appear to operate on a multilateral basis.
1993	Caseloads are contained in manual lists or on the which is accessed by printouts.
1993	Keep a separate record on the , or manually, of the work type involved.
1993	This means that it also appears on any printouts that you receive.
1993	If the files are on then the printout should indicate the time that has elapsed since the last time entry on the file.
1993	Consider reviewing printouts or lists of cases with another lawyer.
1993	Every year since 1984 it has published its Directory of Systems and improvements are made in every edition.
1993	The Society for and Law (SCL) holds workshops and exhibitions and has recently published a booklet "A Lawyer's Guide to Litigation Support" price £5.00 for members and £10.00 for non-members.
1993	(In a recent survey of large law firms 88 per cent said they intended to have a on every fee earner's desk.)
1993	Consider the need to stick to market standards such as buying an IBM-compatible personal .
1993	It is now possible to buy fax systems that run within the word-processing applications to enable faxes to be sent and received on personal or work stations.
1993	Portable are good to access information while travelling.
1993	Electronic time recording can be done on terminals or through Psion's Series 3 pocket .
1993	It is possible to have lawyers' time recorded on Psions or directly into a terminal but a compromise is for lawyers to complete time sheets manually that are then inputted by a member of the accounts team on to .
1991	Now, of course, the word processor or can take over much that used to be printed.
1991	Larger firms may have direct links enabling an instant registered office search.
1991	Although produced by , the conditions are not always in a set standard form.
1991	The concerns of Scott J were echoed by Harman J in Systems Reliability Holdings Plc v Smith [1990]IRLR 377 where the judge concluded (in a case where he was concerned with an express restriction on the use and disclosure of, in particular the knowledge acquired by the defendant during his employment of the ability to modify an old by a small addition so as to make a new product of significant commercial value) that the controversial part of Neill LJ's judgment did not bind him to hold that there cannot be in an express restrictive of covenant any restriction on information held by an ex-employee which is not a trade secret or something similar.
1991	For instance, if the terms provide that The Supplier shall bear the cost of connecting the goods to the electricity, gas, water and other services who is reponsible for connecting the goods to the telephone network, or to the buyer's internal network?
1991	Increasingly, businesses wish to make use of modern methods of instantaneous communication, including fax, telex and commnications (electronic data interchange—EDI).
1991	However, a wide range of goods could fall within that definition, including motor vehicles, and electronic equipment, tools, furniture, furnishings and so on.
1993	By the same token, however, says Ryan, one would have to conclude that the world of "Jabberwocky" contains , and that Little Red Riding Hood could, if so inclined, peruse the writings of Aquinas.
1993	science makes a dual contribution to Ryan's approach to narrativity: on the one hand, it is a source of useful concepts and metaphors for the representation of narrative boundaries (Chapter 9) and of plots (Chapter 10); on the other hand, it is presented as an exciting (although impervious) testing ground for models and hypotheses concerning the production and interpretation of narratives (Chapter 11).
1993	Ryan's proposal for a program for automatic story generation which fulfils her three criteria of creativity, aesthetic awareness and understanding will probably remain beyond the boundaries of feasibility for a long time, but it does demonstrate both the need for a greater contribution of ideas from poetics and narratology to developments in artificial intelligence, and the insights that can be gained from the attempt to shape one's ideas about narrative into a form that can be learnt and applied by .
1992	for the etcetera.
1992	Obviously completing  joint statements  booking in time to go on the to get them typed up nicely
1992	Remember there's a file on top on my filing cabinet where both Trish  worked out  sort of simple lesson plans  er, before we actually put them on  oh they're going up, not use the now are we?
1992	We're not using the .
1992	all that, and then the analyses and comes up with areas of where they think you might be
1992	and things, job families  er, we've got that already and we've got, there's gonna be the thing on careers  but you see we've only managed  this year  to get it brought down from year eleven, somebody who went into this, keeping it very close to myself, to bring it down to year ten  they're actually  you know, it's very, very difficult to let them remove it and I can't see that you can then make that down to ninth year just yet.
1993	On my way back from Ents Committee last week, erm the internal mail bloke was delivering some gear to services, and he left the back of the post van open.
1993	That is effectively we're paying this extra fifty pence  right   resource misallocation  we there is always what's called a dead weight loss  right to intervention, right it's an inefficiency loss or an efficiency loss, due to the fact that we're asking t , in this case farmers, right to using, use resources but farmers aren't the most efficient people in  resources but  in to erm, high tech companies, alright  and if we gave pounds worth of support to a high tech company they would be able to produce more value as a result of that pound er than if we gave one pound to a farmer, simply because  erm  that, sort of the high tech industries are more productive, they're more efficient.
1993	Now, looks pretty horrendous  alright, but if we  bum data on S T, S T minus one, S T minus two and P T minus one, all actual  variables, if we bung those into the  microfit and ask them to  form the regression, it would do, right, it would just  you'd get S T equals A plus B  that's T minus one  plus C  A T minus two  plus D  A T minus one  alright, and   B T   So before we  we'll call that equation four  right, so although it looks nasty  alright  it's fairly straightforward, it's all, all we're doing is, we'd be asking the to regress S T on constant  like how you would yourself  T minus one  to like values  T minus two  and like prices  okay.
1993	So if for any one of those parameters, let's just say B  right, let's just say that's the true distribution of  the parameter B  what you'll   you estimate O L S and you'll get  alright, you'll get biased estimates, this is what you would get from the , alright  so we'd be biased cos the, the true value is over here but not only that, is that, instead of having a nice peak distribution, distribution would be quite flat, alright we'd  we wouldn't have the minimum variants property  alright.
1994	But that's on ?
1994	That is extremely confusing for her, cause she has on her , she has various versions named in two, unless she destroys previous versions of M2 when she does this one Well she should she should overtype the correct one Which isn't what we did with M1
1994	I think it's also reasonable to point out, that at the moment, the County Council does enter into finance lease arrangements to meet the business needs, of for example Translink and Services.
1994	We we do that in terms of of of capital control for Translink and Services, and it's interesting to note that we don't class as a debt free authority, so what we have is a number of scare stories from Vincent over there, which is irresponsible.
1994	First on page nine, Services  Er, I know we see an increase in the staff  Information Technology.
1994	Indeed, what you have before you, is a demand for increased information, and this is generated by er, a system, for example.
1994	When I saw Services, I was immediately a bit disappointed.
1991	By April 1989 every school had a system to help with School Management.
1994	But otherwise everything's written down and we have bought the  e of the but Wendy is familiarizing herself with it and it's quite hard work.
1994	Erm and it'll take us a little bit of touch actually now  the evaluated.
1994	So if do you have that information on your , I was think that if you did that consistently over a year.
1994	Then you just ask the at the end of the year and you'll see whether your advertising
1994	Wendy will do the bit and they'll do the counting bit.
1994	Yeah I think any anything that's on the needs to have the input prepared beforehand.
1994	And sort out the but the thing is she may be able to get some more up to date .
1994	ring me up and asking  I understand you Anyway to cut a long story short, he was basically saying well do you know of any ?
1994	the
1994	to get the proper tables  sorted out.
1994	Except if you got tables, it just seats one on it, don't forget we have
1994	But Celia, let us look at at tables because I saw some which can take typewriters and .
1994	I have also complained to you continually about the loss of orders I have taken from my customers, ie back orders which get lost on the or they are not delivered due to the lack of stock.
1994	Erm sales and Mar you were with Martin's?
1994	And you do that on the do you?
1993	So I've done a variety of jobs, and I'm not quite sure how I ended up doing what I'm doing  I got into by accident, just being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
1993	I found out they had a in the bottom of the building when I worked in the bank and it started off from that.
1994	I, I hesitate to suggest, I mean that I'm quite happy to support what Mr  is saying, because I really hesitate to suggest reviving the old and financial services working party, because I think that was probably my most miserable experience on this council, with the single exception of the budget review er, parallel, or whatever it was, when it was led by .
1994	I think that the genetic er, testing that was, that is now law, has to go a long way towards finding criminals, who once they've been tested will find it very difficult to commit crime again, because they're on record, and they'll be on record.
1994	That's what's called a relative  .
1993	Oh he's into is he?
1993	My husband works in as well.
0000	On the and then you can actually do this.
0000	Oh, before we go any further, yes, sorry, no, you're right  Liam can you make sure that 's on please that one.
0000	The silly thing is there is no divide on here and  the only thing I can suggest really, there is a divide symbol in the that we can drag out but to drag it out every time it's too boring really so I'll think we use this I don't like using this, but you see this symbol here, that's what they really use for divide, so if you do that and a couple spaces, people will learn that that means divide, it's all we can do really
1993	She has no power of speech remaining to her, she also has an Acorn and types very many letters on it.
1993	At home she also uses the Acorn to play a number of games including golf with her father.
1993	There is a problem with gripping  which has shown some improvement but which is apt to be most problematical when, for instance, she is concentrating hard at her .
1993	He's a man who erm is qualified in the field of sciences and if your Lordship will hear has worked throughout his life in the fields of , banking  and er in March of nineteen eighty five he left employment with a company known as Data Logic Limited where he had been employed as a banking consultant  and decided at that stage er on a change of career  erm and he was looking principally to acquire a wine bar, restaurant, country house hotel, something of that nature and er you will hear that after some early disappointments in  the earlier part of nineteen eighty five when deals that er  were on the horizon for premises in Oxfordshire and then in Chichester  erm in early September the plaintiffs er saw and liked the wine bar in  and offered the price of, the asking price of seventy five thousand pounds with stock er which was accepted.
1993	Basically it was receiving telephone calls from the public erm and using that information to put on a to send officers to incidents  various incidents.
1994	What's the  of aided research.
1994	Possibly because of aided research, so many results are being produced, that there is neither time nor money to follow them up.
1994	Yes, I think it was relevant to , yes, erm, yes.
1994	There are certain associates, who're not going to use a rate book, there's associates who er, because you're doing a two appointment sale, will always have time to come back to the office and get a quote and go back with the right answer.
1994	Until you're in a situation where you've got your own lap-top , and you can tell them instantly.
1994	Now you don't have to rely on this, because you can ring through to head office in the evening, or you can ring through your branch while that's open, and get a quote over the phone, but actually find it quite useful if somebody asks me to be able to give them an idea of how much it's going to cost them.
1994	Now it may differ slightly by a penny from the quote anyway, so I always say, if that was me, it's going to cost you, what was it,thirt , what did it work it out,
1994	The tie lines are so congested it isn't true, especially with  accounts being at Stansted and apparently there has been a proposal in since last March with all the costings and everything which is still waiting on an answer for improved lines which would actually take some of the lines and everything.
1994	When st when staff can't all receive that information at the same time but they y'know they can read but they need the information but that can't all receive it simultaneously they  as many staff many staff , one more  and the last one is one you like stuff like that where you've got a lot of detailed information you know that you want detailed information
1994	And finally, the expert again we spoke about that, a good example really is in the world where you have individuals who get on really well with and programming but put them in a group and they really don't provide any in fact if anything they take away from the group.
1991	Erm, and I B M is is of course, very well known in the field.
1991	Now some of you here today might wonder, what a company has to do with the community.
1991	The initiative's aim is to encourage children in schools, to think about the environment, and involve producing an environmental teaching pack, running an environmental course for teachers, and developing a green software application for us on personal in schools.
1991	Many organisations, as I'm sure you are aware, buy or receive them as gifts, but they don't make full use of them because of the lack of money for the necessary training and consultancy.
1991	Incidentally, much of its work was done in support of the Citizens' Advice Bureaux, erm, in which it helped develop er, applications, and also it had the courage to organise a major AIDS conference.
1994	Er G E C Marconi's are the leader of a consortium, a four nation consortium of companies that are supplying the and are also contributing to the software.
1994	but the can't do it and  so
1994	Providing that the forms get down to  the in London on time
1994	We really ought to have these n these P O A customers with their pl with with their blind lists on the .
1994	I'll I'll do it on the but
1993	at, some things to work out, erm, you better write them out and then you can read your own writing then, so if I say, er, you can only in , you can just make your own notes on what you need to do the question, but normally costs six hundred pounds,but erm, Rumbelows are doing a fifteen per cent discount,how much do you pay for it?
1993	Erm, and next door they've got a what, the same was seven hundred and fifty pounds.
1993	The ?
1993	yeah, er, well this is a different thing now, it is er something else, a different type of , say, in one shop it's eight hundred pounds, plus VAT  and in the second shop it's nine hundred and twenty five pounds, but you don't pay any VAT on that one, it's already got the VAT in
1993	er on the
1993	I promise, but not at the moment cos it needs a lot of setting up, I'll get myself to set my up specially to make those disks
1994	What I want to cover now is a type of network that we study a lot in the architecture group and I've been working with for years and years and years erm called the N tuple network.
1994	Typically we don't we implement it in software and even in software it's very quick because are ideally set up to implement these sort of systems.
1994	We've got the right sort of technology to implement these erm we can move out from there into the neural network world.
1994	Mark  shortly to get a  L C two and suggested that it may be  green party especially if we could purchase a suitable printer.
1994	Printed off on my er employer's er and er put it in one of their envelopes and try to steal a stamp from them.
1994	The background changes and in a way the background is about things like the visual aids, flipcharts and er the use of video and er even these peripherals you can put on a on a overhead projector now that plug into a .
1994	I don't know if anybody's ever seen those but you can actually have a at the side and a thing that sits on there and you can change and up on the screen it will appear what's on the screen on the .
0000	Er we set up on a regional basis er  er Robert  talked to you a couple of months ago about the initiatives that he's taking from our  and that again is a very much of a cross practice initiative er which is drawing on all the skills that we've got within the with within the office penetrate the middle market sector and we are going to er specifically use er our grounds expertise and er audit expertise as a product which we saw would be attractive to these er these sort of companies.
1994	Erm, his son Nick, he's a programmer for I C L, but I believe it's now changed it's name to D two B. Caroline's at Essex University taking a Master's Degree in Art, and Christopher's still at school.
1994	So how can you view the fact that somebody else is er, typing, or doing a transcript of er, what we're actually saying on this tape, we should explain what grotting is, it's most probably you know something that you do on a screen rather than if you look it up in the dictionary, what grotting actually means.
1994	We ain't going to have an organised workload, we are not operators, what we are is salesmen.
1994	Now they used something called a tachistoscope, I'm not sure about the spelling of that, which you don't come across these days, it tends to be that're used.
1994	By and large they've been replaced by now.
1994	Interestingly, it does feed into some of the later ideas that were associated with computational modelling, I E using to recognise objects on model processes, in particular perceptual ones.
1994	Y d ?
0000	Er, I understand there was problem because of the breakdown which caused a certain record to be lost but then I discover that there is no copy of man manual copy of orders sent to the contractors for repairs kept so that having lost the record the council do not know what lights have been reported to contractor for repair and then find out the basic clients
0000	We've got that on the , that came in  yesterday, that came in  wherever
0000	the says there was some and there isn't any .
0000	Because that information is not in the at the moment.
1994	the .
1994	We know it's eighty from the stock count but I don't know what the says.
1994	It hasn't been picked up on Unless the says there's a suff It may be
1994	The 's telling them it's in stock.
1994	He's undergoing laser treatment but as everybody will point out to you, when he's in the Tardis and he's operating the , even with his glasses on, he's reading it like this.
1994	Erm we have we had in in this particular set of accounts thirty five pounds on two occasions for rooms er which we had to let go and data er which is still being processed I understand at a cost of forty pounds.
1994	I've had a package at long last er back from EARS er  but I haven't actually erm put it onto the yet because it's erm it's proving a bit temperamental at the moment and I didn't want to risk overloading it with with yet another er software package u until I've had it seen to.
1994	Erm  er that that was for a B B C .
1989	This is a BBC BASIC reference manual, it is not intended to teach you BASIC nor tell you how the Z88 works.
1989	The following program segment, which was developed by Cambridge Ltd, provides the facilities of a line editor.
1989	J 60010 DEF PROCE(B) 60020 REM Cambridge Ltd. 60030 If B=0 THEN ENDPROC 60040 A=OPENOUT ": RAM.O/EE.CLI" You can append the editor to your BBCBASIC programs with the following command: *CLI. *EDBAS Your program should not, of course, use line numbers 60000 up.
1989	The will evaluate an expression taking this priority order into account.
1989	It often makes things easier for us humans to understand if you include the brackets whether the needs them or not.
1989	Most versions of BASIC allow access to the 's memory with the PEEK function and the POKE command.
1989	On most (single tasking) like the BBC Micro, you can escape from such a loop by pressing <BREAK> or turning the off.
1989	Because the Z88 is a sophisticated which is capable of holding several programs in memory concurrently, this option has complications.
1989	A hard reset will cause all the programs and data in RAM to be lost and a soft reset may possibly leave the in an unstable condition which will lead to an eventual software failure.
1989	If the encounters DEF during execution of the program, the rest of the line is ignored.
1989	Some will perform this function on receipt of a sequence of control characters and in this case you can use VDU or CHR$ to send the appropriate codes.
1989	However, many do not have this facility and a procedure to clear to the end of the screen would be useful.
1989	The example below is a procedure to clear to the end of screen on a with an 94 by 8 display.
1989	The limit of 35 on the input number prevents the answer being too big for the to handle.
1989	This information may be obtained from Cambridge Ltd.
1989	The Z88 is a sophisticated which is capable of holding several programs in memory concurrently.
1989	A hard reset will cause all the programs and data in RAM to be lost and there is a possibility that a soft reset may leave the in an unstable condition which will lead to an eventual soft-ware-failure.
1989	If you wish to develop assembler language programs, we suggest you do so on a which does not hold programs or data that you cannot afford to lose.
1989	It would also be wise to download your program to another or an EPROM before testing it.
1989	You may wish to write a program which makes use of special facilities and which will be run on different types of .
1989	This information is available from Cambridge Ltd.
1989	A only understands numbers, In order to deal with characters, each character is assigned a code number.
1989	A part of the generates special electronic signals which cause the characters to be displayed on the screen.
1989	Different types of use different numbers for the characters.
1989	The codes used for PC compatible are those defined by the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII).
1989	You can use this command to tell the to type the line numbers automatically for you when you are entering a program (or part of a program).
1989	Whilst the is quite happy dealing with angles expressed in radians, you may prefer to express angles in degrees.
1989	BBCBASIC(Z80) uses the 's memory to store your program and the variables that your program use.
1989	This command effectively "removes" a program from the 's memory.
1989	This instruction gives direct access from BBCBASIC(Z80) to the 's I/O hardware.
1989	However, if you insist on directly access the Z88's hardware, you will need a copy of the Z88 Developers' Notes (available from Cambridge Ltd).
1989	Whilst the is quite happy dealing with angles expressed in radians, you may prefer to express angles in degrees.
1989	Whilst the is quite happy dealing with angles expressed in radians, you may prefer to express angles in degrees.
1989	As with the BBC Micro the (*) commands provide access to the operating system.
1989	Thus, the CLI acts in many ways like a programming language for controlling the way the functions.
1989	In jargon, they are "bound" to the keyboard and the screen.
1989	This is no problem if you are in BBCBASIC(Z80)'s immediate mode where the is waiting for you to type something.
1989	The following BBCBASIC(Z80) program is the program line editor (by Cambridge Ltd) introduced in the "General Information" section.
1989	All are able to store and retrieve information from a non-volatile medium.
1989	Audio cassettes may be used for small micro , diskettes for medium sized systems and magnetic tape and large disks for big machines.
1989	Some , like the Z88, are designed so that the contents of RAM are not lost when the machine is "shut down" (pressing both <SHIFT> keys).
1989	These can use RAM instead of tape or disk as a non-volatile storage medium.
1989	You then go an make a cup of tea whilst the reads through all the files until it comes to the one you want.
1989	Life is easier with a that uses diskettes or RAM.
1989	There is an index which tells the where to look for each of the files and a serial search for the file is not necessary.
1989	If we wanted to hold our address book on the , we would need a number of records each holding the name, address, telephone number, etc of one person.
1989	Conventional serial file procedures are little different from file procedures for cassette based .
1989	Most versions of BASIC only offer serial and random files, but because of the way that files re handled by BBC BASIC (both on the BBC and the Z88 using BBCBASIC(Z80)), it is possible to construct indexed, and even linked, files as well.
1989	Any file which can be read by the , from any source and in any data format, can be processed using the BGET#, BPUT# and PTR# functions.
1987	The chapter will cover hardware — the microcomputers; software — the programs needed to make work effectively; and it will provide an overview of possible applications of microcomputers for librarians and teachers working together in schools.
1987	There are three main types of — mainframes, minicomputers and microcomputers.
1987	A mainframe can control the computing applications of a whole company or university.
1987	It costs thousands of pounds (a recent acquisition of a mainframe by a polytechnic cost £300, OOO) and it needs dedicated professional staff to operate and maintain it.
1987	A minicomputer can often carry out many of the tasks of a mainframe but is smaller and needs less staff.
1987	Because of developments in technology, minicomputers are now able to do what mainframes did 10-15 years ago.
1987	The microcomputer is the result of further breakthroughs in design and the most advanced microcomputers, some costing under £2, OOO, can now perform as well as some minicomputers.
1987	At the lower end of the market are "home" which are designed often for enthusiasts for programming or for children or adults to play games.
1987	In schools, "home" are also used.
1987	The CPU carries out certain operations with the information, but most importantly, it sends the information to the 's memory (see FiguresI.l and 1.2).
1987	The memory can store information which is put in, so that this information can be used again and it can hold a set of instructions for the to carry out.
1987	A program is a list of instructions for the and when the program is loaded into the microcomputer, the CPU carries out each instruction until the task is complete.
1987	Thus the list would be saved in the memory in alphabetical order and the school librarian could see the sorted list on the monitor.
1987	The information would remain in the 's memory and copies  taken at any time.
1987	In most home , this device is a cassette tape recorder which relays the program from the tape into the 's memory.
1987	It will contain a program or programs to allow the to be used in certain ways.
1987	Once the school librarian or teacher has mastered the simple stages of switching on the different parts of the microcomputer, e.g. to set up the BBC microcomputer, the user 1) Plugs in the , the disk drive, the monitor and the printer 2) Switches on the microcomputer, the disk drive, the monitor and the printer 3) Puts a disk into the disk drive 4) Types in a command on the microcomputer s/he will be able to use programs for different applications such as database creation or word processing and the applications are covered later in this book.
1987	In order to keep the sorted list, the school librarian or teacher would have to ask the to save it on disk i.e. copy it on to the floppy disk.
1987	A byte is a term which is equal to one character.
1987	In order to use all this memory, to store large pieces of text or large amounts of data for pupils to work with, the newer will have to use hard disk facilities.
1987	This means that several large microcomputer companies are designing which will run most IBM software and it may be that in ten years time, the problem of incompatibility will be lessened.
1987	In many schools, rooms have a number of microcomputers linked into a network.
1987	Despite the dramatic revelations of new, super-microcomputers in the national and press, a school is likely to want to buy a microcomputer which is a known brand and which will suit the information needs of staff and pupils.
1987	All colleges of education have departments who actually seek close cooperation with schools in developing use.
1987	In terms of software, a general rule is that new will run most of the old software but that new software, written for updated versions of existing microcomputers is often incompatible with earlier versions.
1987	In the library and information world, journals such as Small in Libraries, Program1 Vine and Library Micromation News all print articles on microcomputer use.
1987	More specifically dedicated to microcomputers are Educational Computing, 4 Acorn User, Apple User, Journal of Aided Learning, CET News, SCET News and Education.
1987	With the advent of microcomputers in schools, software packages for CAL are being used in greater numbers by teachers and individual pupils.
1987	Chapter 8 examines the selection, acquisition and organization of software in school libraries and shows how the traditional working together by school librarians and teachers can be harnessed to these new sources of information and learning.
1987	Guardian 30/1/86.
1987	"While each school will be different in terms of decision-making on and financial matters and different committees will exist, the mechanisms for acquiring a microcomputer and justifying its acquisition in educational terms, will be similar in all schools.
1987	The emphasis in schools has been on science and CAL.
1987	The Wandsworth School example shows a document used by the librarian at the school's Committee.
1987	By the use of the 's appeal to pupils a) promote an attitude of Inquiry — b) encourage an awareness of the process of inquiry skills 2.
1987	It might be h d that the place for this would be in the Studies Curriculum but to do this would preclude a large number of pupils from acquiring basic handling skills.
1987	Managed Learning (CML) areas with one or two micros DD and UDU.
1987	Carol Stewart (School Librarian) James Henderson (Asst Principal Teacher, Studies)
1987	Use of external database (Prestel) use of use of alphabetical index keyboard skills Use of dictionary Letter writing use of word processor use of keyboard skills Use of telephone (verbal communication) Use of street plan Use of bus timetables
1987	Appraisal of audience Reappraisal of word web using information gathered Organization of database decide on headings/subheadings sequence cross-referencing Use of keyboard skills graphic skills use of Prestel language/presentation layout Use of (COMMUNITEL) viewdata routing/cross referencing discussion of limitations/size
1987	are tools
1987	The WORDWISE program will be used as an example here but the options are very similar in all packages and once the user learns the basics of word processing- switching between programs is relatively easy and it is likely that schools will have different types of word processing programs in the school library, in the room and in classrooms.
1987	In one instance, a pupil's dissertation was "lost" through an operating error but a number of pupils divided up the work, which was in final draft, took it to the room and keyed in the text in sections.
1987	EDFAX and COMMUNITEL can be seen very much in the discovery learning sector of software and school librarians and teachers can be instrumental in guiding pupils to be creative, using a range of information and artistic skills.
1987	Megarry, I., "An introduction to Wordwise Plus" , Concepts, 1984.
1987	The user must not switch off the before this option is chosen as this could affect further use of the files on disk.
1987	For secondary school pupils, database creation may as yet mean very little outside the studies department but, on encountering some examples of databases in S1/S2, they may remember similar exercises with football terms or animals in primary school.
1987	Information skills in relation to computerized information retrieval are developed within the following framework information awareness and the information cycle of selecting, processing and communicating information awareness: the difference between databases and datafiles   information needs awareness: the articulation of purpose information source awareness: identifying, selecting and using relevant sources of information which encompasses the multi-level cognitive skills of analysis, negotiation, interpretation and synthesis.
1987	software, as Chapter 8 demonstrates, now has a permanent place in the school library and using Prestel allows the school librarian with a chance to get started.
1987	We can expect, in the next decade, to see more sophisticated hardware and software produced as users become more expert and practised in the best ways of using in the learning process.
1987	Some database software come "content for pupils to use as a source of information e.g. QUES1 as books come in a variety of formats so does soft" Viewdata software such as COMMUNITEL, with pages down from Frestel, comes closest to the description of a book with and page numbers.
1987	In this category, the pupil is in control of the , inputting her/his own data manipulating it according to need.
1987	Many pupils have been found to take more care in reading information on a screen because they are more motivated in tasks involving the microcomputer.
1987	The Advisory Unit for Based Education (AUCBE) in Hatfield and the Microelectronics Support Units with regional centres throughout the  country are examples.
1987	Popular magazines aimed at specific microcomputer users such as Acorn User, professional journals such as Educational Computing and the Journal of Aided Learning, daily newspapers e.g. Guardian and electronic sources such as Prestel, all provide good coverage of the subject.
1987	Newsletters produced by user groups and societies also offer useful information on software.
1987	It is often not easy to find out what societies have newsletters or booklets available but an example is AYCE (Association of Young Users) which is a subgroup of the British Society.
1987	If the program has potential, it is likely that the publisher is going, bring it to the school's notice or it will be mentioned in article applications in, for example, the Times Educatic Supplement.
1987	It is important for school librarians to scan journals, obtain information from publishers and other sources, arrange exhibit of software in the school or provide loan copies of software from school library service.
1987	The in the school library are available for use all day.
1987	The library opens at 8.15 am and from then until 9 pm and from 3.45 pm to 4.30 pm, time is set aside for games as long as the microcomputers are not required for more serious work.
1987	A follow-up course in 1982 on "How to use the in the library" dealt with information handling software and how to use it (Figure 9.1).
1987	The panel, chaired by Virginia Berkeley, will consist of Jean Beck and John Warwick (General advisor for mathematics and based education).
1987	A pilot group (the cascade group) was formed of six librarians who had microcomputers in their libraries and the group began meeting in December 1982.
1993	Having seen the reassured mother smilingly on her way, Lindsey switched off the and set about clearing her desk.
1992	When they'd first re-entered the apartment the place had been crawling with a crowd of men who were mending the air-conditioning, installing a and modem to a fresh telephone line, and plugging in the dreaded fax machine.
1992	The twins had been thrilled with the , of course— how was it that even small children could pick up the mechanics of these complicated machines in five seconds flat?
1993	The next house was now offices for a firm.
1991	So Travis stayed the night on their couch, with the only bonus for him being that, bleary-eyed and hung-over the next morning, he had a chance to have a brief word with Rosemary before she went to her programmer's job.
1991	A separates the different colours.
1993	Ruth sipped her drink and gazed across at Steve who was happily engrossed in their latest project, a presentation for one of the largest software companies in the UK, offering their salesmen lavish holidays in lavish Majorca in exchange for lavish rises in sales.
1992	A whiz-kid, he had built up an electronics empire that rivalled the best in the world.
1993	‘I've just left Simon poring over print-outs with an engineer, so you're right, he has forgotten about you,’ he told her, and paused.
1993	She looked down at the screen.
1993	He strode to the gold oak dest, gestured to the , printer, fax machine, telephone console.
1993	‘Later on,’ Sophie said, ‘we'll get a and other technical wonders.’
1994	they, they actually assign  there's er, there's er a system which er allows you to build up the rates for doing work.
1994	The reads the message and goes up .
1994	So that it can all it's all it's all assembled by load by now.
1994	If they've got their own which is I B M compatible we just give them the disk because it's programmed that  the despatcher not the hardware.
1994	It's clea quick  and it can link directly to our if you want .
1994	they don't have a, you know, kind of based mailing list that they can print out or something you know?
1993	The system works in conjunction with Central's newsroom system and will provide a word-for-word transcript of the day's news stories as they are presented on-screen.
1993	Combined with analysis in Oxfordshire, they've discovered that the scheme can be built more cheaply.
1993	A mother's warning on games.
1993	A mother is blaming her son's addiction to games for triggering his epileptic fits.
1993	A new system for checking on chemical reactions deep below the ground could dramatically improve monitoring of the build-up of explosive gasses.
1993	Before now, checks on methane levels around a landfill site had to be collected and interpreted through a churning out reams of highly complex figures.
1993	But minutes after this sample is taken electronically, the logger is plugged into a which immediately displays graphic images of the chemical cocktail underground.
1992	Michael Croggon's compiling a catalogue of a thousand different species of trees to be found in the Amazon region.
1992	A survey has shown that over half are paying more interest than they should.
1992	It was proved by feeding his statement into a unique programme designed to check for bank mistakes.
1992	I work on .
1992	I work on .
1992	The mistake meant his absence wasn't entered into the police national until a couple of days ago.
1992	In the last hour they've added,’ there was a delay in putting information on the records.
1992	For today; s children, video and games are all the rage.
1992	Murray Stewart was jailed in the summer for attempting a £40m fraud.
1992	A programme allows them to plan the food he'll have to take for the 12 man crew on the Group 4 yacht.
1992	It's here that he worked on the painstaking part by part design of the bike on a .
1992	A small company is leading the way in using lasers to create three-dimensional models from images.
1992	3-dimensional plans are drawn up on a .
1992	She's a secretary for Linotype Hell in Cheltenham and was busy working at her .
1992	He says he was an army officer seconded to the site and it made a remarkable contribution to the war, as well as developing the first .
1992	like these are disappearing at a cost of around £40,000 a year.
1992	The signals reflected back from solid objects like these skulls form an image which can be enhanced by a .
1992	CD's will one day be used for everything, storing data, films, games etc.
1992	Scientists have unravelled how it works inside a cancerous tumour…. it sits in the membrane of the cell…using graphics, researchers know what P-glycoprotein looks like, and that it's more common in cancer cells.
1992	With a operating the equivalent of a giant CD jukebox.
1992	The diet that could mean fat profits.
1992	If you've tried the F-Plan diet, the Cambridge diet, hypnosis, liposuction or even having your jaw wired, all without success, then how about the diet?
1992	programmer Steve Sowerby has a weight problem.
1992	But Linda Webb, a dietician at the Princess Margaret Hospital in Swindon, doubts whether dieting will catch on.
1992	Today's scouts proudly wear cooking and badges as well as the more traditional activities of camping and sports.
1992	This new technique will revolutionise police records.
1992	Here, the Metropolitan police are planning to feed all genetic records of known sex offenders into their next year — this will speed up considerably the time in which they can track down attackers.
1992	Thirty two thousand would-be undergraduates are checking their applications to university in case they've been lost because of a fault.
1992	It's all because of a error at the Cheltenham based University Central Council on Admissions.
1992	we're going to stay afloat now for news of a top European win for the Laser firm of Banbury.With the help of and fashion, their sailing craft are on the crest of the highest wave you ever did see
1992	But he still needs to go to the United States to get the equipment he needs.
1992	Prisoners are using to translate books into braille for the blind, as part of a jail's rehabilitation programme.
1992	If we are out on the day it will be because of human error but can't do it so accurately.’
1992	Robin Smith from Cheltenham was a scientist working for the Government, and a member of the Institution of Professionals, Managers and Specialists, at the GCHQ spy base in the town.
1992	The wizards byte back.
1992	Welcome back: A two-man company has won two million pounds in damages from games giant Nintendo who tried to stop them marketing a revolutionary new invention.
1992	The court decision means the pair, who are only in their twenties, could make a substantial fortune from the device, which enables the user to modify a game and get more use from it.
1992	When owners of expensive games have conquered all the complexities of their latest purchase the only thing to do has been to buy another, harder game.
1992	The Darling brothers went into the business while still teenagers.
1992	In Central News tonight: Banned from school…headmaster says games cause aggression.
1992	Traditional playground games are back in fashion at Bredon Hill Middle School near Evesham in Worcestershire after the headmaster banned handheld games like Super Mario and Sonic the Hedgehog.
1992	Parents at Bredon Hill school are pleased it's game over for combat, they're backing the headmaster all the way.
1992	There's not much pure flying left where you don't use .
1992	From now on, he's getting his kicks from his favourite game, though his injuries have even impaired his skill at that.
1993	A manager sought by police for the murder of his wife and children apparently killed himself by walking into the sea.
1993	Dennis Garvey, a manager, had been sought since Tuesday when the family nanny discovered the bodies of his two young children and his wife Julie at their home at Teddington in Gloucestershire.
1993	Working with programmes, light stimulation has improved his vision.
1993	More equipment, especially are desperately needed to help youngsters here have just as much fun as any other children.
1993	Nowadays with , just over 4,000 can do the same job.
1993	The went down for a while, it's probably full of water
1993	But now, composing by , he's produced a relaxation tape with fellow MS sufferer, Steve Brisk.
1993	He says he composes by using the keyboard on the .
1993	Nice vivid pictures, despite working on old .
1993	You travel round quite a few diffent places and meet famous people and type it up on the , 1124 things like that.
1993	By the end of the month, it's hoped to have reduced it to 15%, by introducing to plug the holes.
1993	Once they've decided there is a leak, shown here as a rise on the graph, the Workers pinpoint the exact location, using a sophisticated microphone and listening device.
1993	It's through them I've got my own .
1993	An international fraud has been uncovered involving more than a hundred and sixty thousand pounds worth of software.
1993	The cinema even had a special installed to cope with the demand for bookings.
1993	The cinema even had a special installed to cope with the demand for bookings.
1993	The process is monitored by .
1993	A registers the time of the first shot.
1993	are being used to sift information from across the country in an enquiry that involves past and present pupils and staff.
1993	ANDREW ECCLESTON/Expert
1993	Glen Spencer will already have scanned the satellite sequences and print-outs before Charlie arrives.
1993	Charlie tell us that she has to programme the to show the correct illustrations.
1993	While Charlie programmes the graphics, to give us a clearer view of what the weather has in store, the rest of the team work towards later forecasts for home and abroad.
1993	expert, Andrew Eccleston, explains that they were fed up with old-fashioned forecasting methods, so came up with something new.
1993	The measurements are fed into a and from this week the NRPB is sending out each week's results to newspapers.
1993	Every peice like this child's teaset will need to be photographed and catalogued on a .
1993	In the afternoon, he goes to the farm to grade animals which are to be sold by auction; his information is fed into a on auction day; buyers can bid by tapping into their .
1993	My really
1993	It's thought the he was using to write the book was itself the cause of the fire.
1993	Ironically it seems that the personal Mr Anderson was using to write the book was the cause of the fire.
1993	Workmates of a technician who's thought to have have killed his wife and children before committing suicide have held a memorial service to pay their last respects.
1993	And just a hundred yards away is the family home, where technician Dennis Garvey lived with family until last May.
1993	Scientists at the centre will be leading the way in and television technology.
1993	The company dates back to the so-called Ever-sharp pencil invented in 1915, through to a 1960s desktop and now a liquid crystal television display.
1993	With the help of games and a mobile information centre the staff here are well equippped to change attitudes.
1993	PETER LIHOU/Mainstream
1993	Peter Lihou's firm, Mainstream is in the doldrums.
1993	GLEN ROBINS/Operator
1993	Now he's a operator with a firm of designers.
1993	All the information will be stored in the Met Office installed on the site.
1993	Trading standards officers say they're losing the battle against game pirates who cost the industry twenty million pounds a year.
1993	Popular games on sale for just £2 each.
1993	Trading standards officers investigated the couple after complaints from a engineer who bought their products at a sale in Lyneham.
1993	They knew little about and had bought the discs from another counterfeiter who's yet to be caught.
1993	Trading standards officer say the recent growth in car boot sales has provided a perfect outlet for the pirates.
1993	Trading standards officers say they're losing the battle against game pirates who cost the industry twenty million pounds a year.
1993	Popular games on sale for just £2 each.
1993	Trading standards officers investigated the couple after complaints from a engineer who bought their products at a sale in Lyneham.
1993	They knew little about and had bought the discs from another counterfeiter who's yet to be caught.
1993	Trading standards officer say the recent growth in car boot sales has provided a perfect outlet for the pirates.
1993	And now Professor King has produced the software to recognize that voice pattern.
1993	Hundreds of victims of crime could miss out on vital counselling, because of restrictions on the use of information.
1993	But now the information is stored on , it can't be passed on.
1993	Recently Gloucestershire police started a logging system for crime.
1993	firm sacks a fifth of the workforce.
1993	And on the day giants IBM announced six hundred redundancies, the country's biggest independent maker sacked a hundred and twenty people, just a year after making big profits.
1993	The company, with plants at Oxford and Milton near Didcot, make and software for schools and colleges.
1993	Research Machines is offering advice to help former employees find new employmemt, but the outlook for these former workers, many now in their prime, looks uncertain.
1993	The modernisers, in their suits, are well into the age.
1993	A new simulator's been designed to teach drivers how to handle a skid before they end up learning the hard way.
1993	Thames Valley Police have the luxury of a disused airfield and sophisticated equipment to learn about car control…now there's a simulation for the ordinary driver.
1993	It will simulate a whole range of driving scenarios in graphics so people can experience skid problems in the safety of this caravan and trailer
1993	I've actually read it three timesThe idea was born in an Oxford workshop where David Pollard and Susan Nelson have been knocking out printed copies and discs since April.
1993	It has sixty four pages with one hundred and ninety thousand words They spent two days working around the clock typing it into a , now their master disc is being used by a Sunday newspaper to publish the whole thing this weekend.
1993	It's been given away on disc in a wideselling magazine as well.
1993	The officer says they found stolen chequebooks, 38 chequecards, and a quantity of drugs like LSD and cannabis, as well as other items such as equipment
1993	Everything from and videos to power tools and antiques.
1993	More than a hundred workers at a company have been told they'll have to move to Germany — or lose their jobs.
1993	In an unmarked police car equipped with a speed detection , Peter Joslin, Warwickshire's Chief Constable and head of Britain's police traffic committee, showed us the type of driving which he blames for many fatal road crashes.
1993	West Mercia Police tried to introduce this Israeli to monitor vehicle distance and speed.
1993	Unions claim 20 people died in ambulance failure
1993	Health Unions claim twenty people died in London because a dealing with 999 calls broke down.
1993	It's brought on by repetitive typing on a or word processor keyboard.
1993	So intense was the dosaster, and so complicated that the Thames Valley Police have compiled a video showing what happened.
1993	He says they need bikes and .
1993	And some self education goes on with the help of .
1993	The roof was severely damaged and ten thousand pounds worth of school equipment including a was destroyed.
1993	With the help of talking , Alan CAN speak to others.
1993	Roadside sensors at weather stations around the county are linked up to a system.
1993	Here equipment like screens can cause problems.
1993	Half a million pounds was spent on Kington Connect…which links the town to the rest of Britain and abroad with the very latest technology.
1993	Training courses are being run to use to help those out of work
0000	Home can also be found in one in five households, compared with just one in eight seven years ago.
0000	Hugh was already committed to the marathon trip when he heard that the special care school had been burgled and had lost a vital and software, which is crucial in helping the children's development
0000	favourites are Jungle Strike, an air attack Mega-drive game, and Striker, a Nintendo football game.
0000	Every result counts in today's rankings.
0000	THE television, the cinema and games have not managed to prise Ulster children away from book-reading habits, a straw poll shows today.
0000	Laura, who got a Nintendo Super Mario World games-system for Christmas last year, said she loved reading Roald Dahl classics such as‘The Big Friendly Giant’ and ‘Witches’before going to sleep at night.
0000	Paul McGlinchey, the brother of former INLA chief of staff Dominic McGlinchey, has admitted he had access to police personnel files via a modem.
0000	‘They became alarmed because I had access to security force files of theirs, and all security force personnel through the central if I wished.
0000	damage has wiped lists of volunteer collectors and more contacts are needed urgently.
0000	Imagine my disgust when I told the car park attendant of the delays, only to be informed that I must pay for two hours parking, as ‘That is what is on the .’
0000	TD came with electric windows, mirrors and sunroof, a trip , central locking and a good Blaupunkt stereo.
0000	Upstairs, there will be classrooms as well as , craft and homework rooms for children to use.
0000	Zena Blair went shopping in the Northcott Centre last week and came back with a in her trolly.
0000	The Glengormley girl was the lucky winner of an Apple Mac in the centre's back to school competition.
0000	A NEW £ million project will help local industry and commerce tackle management problems.
0000	Advanced technology then uses the information to stimulate human deliberation in tackling management and production problems.
0000	The project is being funded by the European Community's STRIDE programme, firm ICL and the university.
0000	Between the sheets with his friend's wife, or desperately trying to beat his latest game, Cameron is horrified to realise he — cool Colley — is suspect number one in the hunt for a serial killer.
0000	A sizeable system contract with Credit Suisse excited investors in electronics firm Rolfe & Nolan which jumped 12p to 235p.
0000	Bemac Engineering, which supplies sheet metal parts to the telecommunications and industry, ran into problems when the recession hit its major markets.
0000	The company grew during the 1980s on the back of the boom in the sector.
0000	A spokesman for the Industrial Development Board confirmed today that the company had been offered £576,000 in grants last year, before the recession in the supplies market became apparent.
0000	The ‘Ulster In Focus’ films feature local actor B.J. Hogg as Erik, a Viking leader who ingeniously arrives in the 1990s through the screen of a little girl's game.
0000	Meanwhile, Menter Bro Ddyfi has set up new courses at the school, which commence next week.
0000	‘Tutors will begin with simple introductions to and also explain how the equipment can be used in everyday life.’
0000	Those courses are aimed at business people and farmers, and will look at how to make life easier using a to do accounts and lists of information.
0000	Visitors to the Pumphouse were invited to input their weekly alcoholic intake into a , which calculated the cost of their drinking habits.
0000	A expert gave his girlfriend an olde worlde surprise when he enlisted the help of a town crier to ask her to marry him.
0000	A expert gave his girlfriend an olde worlde surprise yesterday when he enlisted the help of a town crier to ask her to marry him.
0000	In addition Final Film are introducing BT's International System Digital Network, a hi-speed data transfer system which allows design work to be sent from the screen down a landline.
0000	Police are expecting to pick up more new leads later this year as forces throughout the country join a national fingerprint system, which will enable them to check unidentified prints from Pinky's.
0000	But the service had looked at 18 areas and applied a Home Office to determine which fire station turns out first to a fire.
0000	Because it is calculated that a retained crew might take four minutes to get to the station the calculated other stations could respond quicker.
0000	models are wonderful things but they do not put people on the ground,’ said an angry Coun Messham.
0000	In one case changes were being proposed because the calculated a difference in response time of about five or six seconds, he claimed.
0000	Mr Hayton said he would be willing to make a presentation of the findings to councillors and if the results could be challenged, they would be re-examined.
0000	Maria won an IBM and yesterday met Blue Peter presenter Diane Louise Jordan for filming of a future episode.
0000	IBM is anxious to recruit more North West and Welsh firms to take part in the on-going survey, which is due to report again in six months time, Peter Willis, a consultant with the giant, said last night.
0000	technician Barry Daniels, of Epping, Essex, yesterday asked two judges to rule that the shutdown of the unit at Westminster Children's Hospital, where his son Rhys was to receive a potentially life-saving operation, was unlawful because proper consultation procedures were not followed.
0000	Mr Parry said that his client had been unemployed for 13 years, unbelievably he had been sent on a course to Wrexham, and he could not even switch the on.
0000	Mr Parry said that his client had been unemployed for 13 years, unbelievably he had been sent on a course to Wrexham, and he could not even switch the on.A 17-year-old youth made a remark and the offence was committed.
0000	I HAVE an Amstrad 464K and a green screen monitor.
0000	I have been told by shops that Amstrad have stopped making this model.
0000	It seems a bit unfair to people who cannot afford to update their every 12 months.
0000	My daughter thought no more of it than if she had been talking about the delivery of a letter because in her world the fax, like the video recorder, the personal and the microwave oven, has always been around.
0000	THE government spent £48m on a system for the Training and Enterprise Councils which has been only a partial operational success, according to a report today by the National Audit Office.
0000	THOUSANDS of council workers got their pay late after a bungle.
0000	Heart-broken pupils' plea
0000	PUPILS at a village school were broken-hearted when thieves stole two of their .
0000	Catrin Gwynfor, 8, wrote: ‘The parents try their best to raise money to buy the and the teachers, too.
0000	The two taken were valued at £2,000.
0000	‘I really do feel sorry for them because they know how hard their parents have worked to raise money for the ,’ she said.
0000	The sad pupils of Ysgol Llawryetws with all that is left behind after the thefts Picture: PHIL MICHEU
0000	Rather, in these days when are capable of most things, and electronic safeguards have become commonplace in even the steadfastly-traditional confines of Wimbledon, the Jockey Club's time would be better spent discussing innovations that would make the 1994 Grand National, and all its successors, worthy of the event.
0000	They also used games to discover how chemicals are made.
0000	It included a GT Karakoram and Rayleigh Dina Tec mountain bikes valued at £430 and £400 respectively, each fitted with a bike , two sets of Wilson golf clubs and one Slazenger set, and two wetsuits.
0000	Like the others, it was fitted with a cycle .
0000	At some, in the centre of Llandudno, expensive and other equipment have been destroyed.
0000	Among the facilities in the Morfa Clwyd, Rhyl, centre will be a video library with viewing facilities and five terminals with the latest business software to help clients produce business plans.
0000	All the relevant data is captured on a machine console and data can be transferred to mainframe for specific analysis.
0000	Other Bangor departments involved are: Agricultural and forest sciences, mathematics, electronic engineering and systems, chemistry and english and linguistics.
0000	The commission hopes to have 110,000 offerings on its by the end of the year, including stately homes, factories, warehouses and high rise flats.
0000	They will be showing fledgling superstars what it takes to be successful in the business and give an insight into studio sampling and techniques.
0000	Mr Chettle was responsible for the staging of a major exhibition of about 40 ‘artists’ in 1988.
0000	The exhibition at the Cleveland Gallery later enjoyed a national tour before going on to Holland, says Mr Chettle, who has more recently been inspired in this direction through his nine-year-old son, Thomas, who is now learning to paint and draw by …
0000	Three would-be commentators were selected Belfast 12-year-old Richard McConkey, Liverpool consultant Sally Ledger, and London solicitor Simon Johnson.
0000	Robin Roberts has been appointed head of Hoskyns automation and control division, the Peterlee-based supplier of services.
0000	It includes communal workshops containing metal and woodworking equipment, and a training room with programmes to give the new-starter a grounding in marketing, book-keeping and business management.
0000	Games Store plans to buy 10 new shops NEWCASTLE-based and games retailer The Games Store is looking to snap up 10 new stores this year.
0000	The radio waves, magnetic field and technology combine to produce vivid images of the body's soft tissue.
0000	This information is run through Home Office and then left on police .
0000	Mr Sands said: ‘While I appreciate that Conservatives ministers need to be vigilant, I do not believe that my staff should be expected to give personal details, which will be kept on police , merely to help a political party publicise its election campaign .’
0000	‘My wife asked a firm about their policy on employing people with disabilities.
0000	Something like Dracula rising from a coffin, a thatched cottage, or a wonderfully realistic chip butty, complete with tomato sauce these are the challenges she enjoys creating at her Middlesbrough shop, Celebrations.
0000	Other cakes cost from between £6 and £30 that's for a with all separate keys, or a fairytale castle.
0000	In the first the threw up the names, in the second it allocated the numbers.
0000	Apprised of this information, the print-outs (’ it's all down to you, the draw will be made by the same that picked you to join the two out of every 100 households in the Barnard Castle area’) are on their way by first-class post to Tom Champagne.
0000	Not that it will alter the 's mind of course but an order for the book which is being promoted along with the prize draw has gone off too.
0000	It all began when at the Middlesbrough Pearl Assurance office broke down.
0000	Thus it seemed in the restaurant of the Golden Eagle at Thornaby, just half a dozen salesmen (and others similarly programmed) dining disconsolately in desultory ones and twos.
0000	and photocopiers are more harmful than tobacco?
0000	There are 115,000 deaths per year caused by exposure to and photocopiers?
0000	The sensor,linked to a , would alter the engine's air-fuel mixture when the level of poisonous fumes such as carbon monoxide becomes too high.
0000	Mrs Goode's success follows that of her husband, David, who graduated two years ago in technical and studies.
0000	She says bringing up three children plus two career moves her husband works for a firm strung out her studies.
0000	Prompt action by firemen prevented thousands of pounds of damage to in the part of the office used by staff of The Northern Junior Sports magazine.
0000	Scarborough police are also investigating a burglary at the Citadel Salvation Army building in the town where thieves made off with an Atari worth £520.
0000	Middlesbrough council yesterday announced it was hoping to donate £3,000 towards the purchase of equipment for the project.
0000	Friends raise funds for Mark THE family and friends of autistic five-year-old Mark Mason have raised £1,400 to buy special equipment to help him communicate and make better progress at the special school he attends in York.
0000	In 1981 he was chairman of the Retailers' Association, and he stood as a local government candidate for Rother Valley in the 1987 General Election.
0000	Their haul included two television sets, a video recorder, a hi-fi system, a , a guitar, compact discs and jewellery.
0000	If you want an example of madness, study the First Class Fixture List.
0000	Mr Milburn said: ‘I hope the Government will take its recommendations very seriously and the Home Office will reconsider its opposition to Labour's suggestion of a national register of people holding guns.’
0000	Raiders broke into the parochial church school at Swainby, making off with a , monitors, a television set, a radio cassette player, cash and a cheque book.
0000	Now a Seagar game system, a colour TV and toys can be purchased from the £520 raised.
0000	Cleveland County, Middlesbrough and Hartlepool Borough councils have been instrumental in devising a specification which has been adopted by the government as its national standard.
0000	The three councils were part of a consortium of 12 local authorities formed last year to prepare a joint specification of the requirements for a council tax system.
0000	The cash will be used to buy a which will be adapted for use by disabled children.
0000	Alyson intends to study languages and studies at South Park College in Normanby after completing her GCSEs.
0000	The romance started last year when at the Middlesbrough office of Pearl Assurance broke down.
0000	Office manager Heather rang the company's technical services department in Cambridgeshire where analyst Chris picked up the phone and at once both knew it was the start of something special.
0000	Organiser the Action North Skelton group also plans further educational programmes in DIY, local history and .
0000	Organisers the Action North Skelton group also plan further educational programmes in DIY, local history and .
0000	Raiders' haul tops £15,000 equipment worth more than £15,000 was stolen in a break-in over the Bank Holiday weekend at offices in Middlesbrough.
0000	The raiders kicked in the front door and forced interior doors into the office area where they selected 14 Apple with asssociated equipment.
0000	The titles were chosen from all departments and covered such popular subjects as , dictionaries and football.
0000	The controlled system, which will also monitor emissions, will process 4.25m tonnes of molten iron a year.
0000	Mr Ayckbourn, who is currently writing a new musical which will receive its world premiere at the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough, will be in Leeds to launch the National Bibliographic Service's software system which will make its records available on CD-ROM.
0000	The Memorial will get a tomography scanner in this financial year.
0000	The equipment takes images from inside the body in the form of thin slices which can then be viewed by specialists on a screen.
0000	They also left thousands of pounds worth of equipment which they had stolen in the raid on the Coulby Newham surgery.
0000	This turning movement generates a tiny radio wave which is sent back to the scanner's powerful .
0000	This turning movement generates a tiny radio wave which is sent back to the scanner's powerful .
0000	Mrs Helen Ashton, college librarian, said hitech work stations and were set to replace the ageing desks, and floppy disc programmes would be used in conjunction with many study books.
0000	Work began on the reorganisation in August last year and electricians have begun preparing for the terminals.
0000	Initially 12 will be installed but this will eventually be increased to 20.
0000	Although traditional books would continue to play an invaluable part in students' learning, discs would back up some of the more technical course literature.
0000	Internal injuries are detected through magnetic forces which are then relayed onto screens.
0000	A database and direct marketing mail shots are among ideas under consideration.
0000	He said a gift of modern and useful equipment from a to a minibus, sports kit to industrial machinery, was an investment for business.
0000	Darlington council has a sophisticated system to cope with the poll tax process.
0000	He said there had also been no difficulties with the inadmissibility of evidence because the council used other sorts of documents to prove its cases.
0000	The glasshouse has the very latest technology including a weather sensitive environmental which measures outside temperature, wind, rain, snow and humidity levels adjusting the vents, screens and heaters to give the ideal growing climate.
0000	The passion of two teenage sons for games spurred a Darlington woman on to set up her own software shop which opens today.
0000	Other games stocked would be at knockdown prices because they were two or three months old rather than the ‘latest thing’ she said.
0000	Mrs Spence and her sons, Edward (left) and Phil, ready to open their games business today.
0000	VAT returns were submitted monthly, based on the records of the business.
0000	There were no bloody toasties, either, due to a malfunction in the machine's mainframe , or something.
0000	Mr Turner, a retired electronics engineer, said: ‘I would love to hear from Ray.
0000	Colour separation facilities on to bromide or film from disc.
0000	The machine diagnoses internal injuries, including sports injuries, via a magnetic tube and displays results on a screen.
0000	Likewise king David Goldman and Newcastle's ‘Fishfinger’ Ken Bell have picked up Labour's red rose and backed Mr Kinnock.
0000	Proposals in the development plan include laying track for steam locomotives, a steam passenger service between Shildon and Darlington, rebuilding work to make the museum reflect the Victorian era, and sound effects and graphics to explain exhibits.
0000	Just prior to this I was under a great deal of pressure to complete a program, and went in to work while I was suffering from the flu and not sleeping very well.
0000	One in five payers in Darlington have been summonsed, 14,948 out of 78,300 accounts, Malcolm Watson, the borough council's head of revenue and systems said.
0000	Other goods taken were a video jewellery and binoculars (Thompson Street West); six coats and sideboard drawer (Geneva Road); electrical goods and clothing worth £2,065); cash and jewellery worth £2,100 (Neasham Road) and (Tyne Crescent).
0000	A cheque for £99,999,999 spewed out by Great Aycliffe Town Council's had already been signed once when it was spotted by council leader Arun Chandran.
0000	Mr Turner, a retired electronics engineer, and Mr Hubbard were among 85 training on HMS Defiant at Devonport but finished training a few months apart and lost touch in 1953.
0000	VAT returns were submitted monthly, based on the records of the business.
0000	Thieves abandoned a number of after being disturbed while raiding a Ripon school.
0000	A and a portable cassette player worth £180 were stolen from a garage in Northallerton.
0000	The haul included five stereo stacking system, a colour TV, video recorder, and a quantity of jewellery.
0000	Thieves made off with a television, video recorder, midi system, microwave oven, Vax cleaner, , 12 games and 20 CDs worth £1,960 from a house in Whorlton Moor Crescent, Darlington.
0000	theft:
0000	A , monitor, keyboard and printer, worth £1,000, were stolen from Burnopfield Junior School, near Stanley.
0000	Police said equipment and petty cash had been stolen.
0000	Car buyers in the North-East are racing to check vehicles against national records as part of a new initiative against auto crime.
0000	Vehicle information organisation HPI, which has opened its register containing details of four million cars, says its switchboard has been swamped after it launched a pilot scheme in the region last month.
0000	With voting in 11 states making up Super Tuesday, projected President George Bush an easy winner on the Republican side but forecast an embarrassing economic protest vote for rightwing challenger Pat Buchanan in Florida.
0000	A man who momentarily left a game outside his house in Greenbank Road, Darlington, found it had been stolen when he returned.
0000	A large dark green Adidas holdall containing a compass set, two lever arch files and 20 three-and-a-half inch discs worth £145 has been stolen from outside the library at Darlington College of Technology.
0000	Mr Tholen is a member of the Middlesbrough-based Teesside and District Chamber of Commerce and are another hobby.
0000	When we arrive there's a three inch pile of mail on the floor, the day's diary overruns one of the screens and the breakfast table is set with grapefruit, muesli, cereals, Frank Cooper's marmalade and a vase of flowers that may or may not have been pinks.
0000	On :
0000	A new has been donated to the diabetes department at the Friarage Hospital, Northallerton.
0000	The , a high performance ultramodern machine, was bought with £2,000 given by Northallerton and district Diabetic Club.
0000	The information should be sent to the communications department at Darlington Police Station, where it will be kept on file.
0000	David Goldman, managing director of Newcastle-based group Sage said the success of his company was the result of the efforts of its management team, not the Tories.
0000	raid:
0000	Burglars have stolen a Sega mega-drive games , three games and a video tape worth £240 from a house in Kielder Drive, Darlington.
0000	A video recorder, a hi-fi, a and equipment worth £1,779 have been stolen in a burglary at a house in West Auckland Road, Darlington.
0000	Burglars have stolen a Panasonic microwave, a Commodore , two televisions, two video recorders, a Pioneer hi-fi, a Kenwood CD player, a carriage clock, Lladro figure and two Chinese plates worth £1,180 from a house in Burnside Road, Darlington.
0000	New shops set to open in Scarborough's £30m Brunswick Pavilion shopping mall by Mothercare, Microbite and outfitters Maze, will take the number of new jobs created in the centre to more than 200.
0000	Mr Malcolm Watson, head of revenue and services, said the council had taken every measure it could to recover the money.
0000	A new listening machine will treat up to 200 children with hearing problems in its first year of use.
0000	By the next day, flood warning built into the river banks along the 120 miles of the Tay were flashing yellow warning signals as placid tributaries dumped their overload into the river.
0000	It was suspected that there must be a link between the murders and Dovaston set out to find it by devising a programme that could provide a statistical profile of who the murderer was likely to be.
0000	Standing for Central Analytical Team Collating Homicide Expertise and Management, the can help murder investigations hone possible lines of inquiry and suggest a profile of the offender.
0000	Dovaston says that the contains some of the most sickening and horrific details imaginable.
0000	Now the 's resources are to be used to help point the finger at the possible killer of James Bulger.
0000	‘The 's first task is to see if there are any other crimes that might be associated or may be a series of offences.
0000	If it is successful the can begin to paint the offender's picture.
0000	There was general agreement, said Sir John, that the average temperature of the earth's surface — as predicted by models — would increase by 0.3C per decade because of emissions from industry and transport, coupled with the effects of deforestation and intensive agricultural practice.
0000	In the past year they have lost a bishop in a love-child affair but over the past few days they had more faith in prayer than in their politicians when it came to saving the Digital plant.
0000	Everyone knows that in the contracting world of producing hardware it would always be a case of dog eat dog.
0000	Pigs, grain, potatoes and some breeding sheep were also sold through the system, which involves potential buyers bidding from terminals in their own offices for livestock, grain, etc. which have been described in detail to them.
0000	THE Surrey-based management consultancy and services group, P-E International, has won a contract worth about £500,000 annually to develop and maintain software for the big Edinburg-based life assurance company, Standard Life.
0000	The costs of software is not prohibitively expensive in addition, hardware costs have also fallen substantially.
0000	Amstrad has taken a £7.24 million charge for the restructuring of its Spanish subsidiary, and has also written down stock by £3.6 million more.
0000	Sectors like are as sensitive to product cycles as to economic cycles, and investment in the medium term is likely to concentrate more on adapting than on building production capacity.
0000	He said the reductions would be made only in the giant's American operations.
0000	If upheld, the preliminary decision by the US Patent and Trademark Office could hurt the company's ability to fend off imitators of its widely used software.
0000	IRISH politicians are convinced that Scotland will win the battle to be European base for the American-owned Digital company.
0000	The Ayr plant makes personal while the Galway factory manufactures mainframes and is a centre of research and development.
0000	The Digital board, which is reviewing its international operation and cutting 25,000 jobs from a worldwide payroll of 102,000, intends to concentrate its resources on a single manufacturing base for ease of access to the European market.
0000	Digital, the world's second-biggest company, has a major presence in Livingston and a microchip unit at South Queensferry which supplies the Alpha chip for the hard-ware assembled at Ayr and Galway.
0000	SCHOOL pupils skipping classes to play with the latest piece of Sonic the Hedgehog software could find another is at work to track them down.
0000	The system, developed by the Dundee-based company Offcome Data, costs around £10,000 to install, including the , the readers and the cards.
0000	It can be used to gain access to libraries or rooms in the buildings.
0000	The most recent development in anti-truancy technology is the Electronic Attendance Registration System (EARS), produced by Bronton at prices varying between £8,000 and £15,000.
0000	Teachers retain control of registration — keeping the important element of one-to-one contact — and perform it in the usual time, but instead of noting absences on paper, they feed the information directly onto a portable electronic register which then passes it to the central .
0000	Brian Pendreigh explores the many arguments which lay the blame on television and films, and Audrey Gillan reports on a playing a vital part in the search for the Merseyside murderer
0000	JENNY HEAD, 37, is a part-time shiatsu [massage]therapist and her husband, Mike Fourman, 42, a science professor at Edinburgh University.
0000	‘I've heard from my husband about graduates not getting jobs, even with a degree in science.’
0000	ELECTRA SCORGIE, 33, is an unemployed rock musician who is attending a training course on .
0000	A health board spokesman said the wages' tape was handed over to the Clydesdale Bank on Wednesday, as normal, which would have allowed processing of the £1,360,000 wage bill in time for withdrawal yesterday.
0000	Boden's has had £20,000-worth of and machinery stolen in ram raids and rooftop break-ins since the start of the year alone, according to a director, Alex King.
0000	Teachers demand action on dangers of games
0000	Thousands of children are becoming hooked on games, according to a survey.
0000	ADDICTION to games is creating aggressive and anti-social tendencies among children, it is claimed today as teachers demand a campaign to alert parents to the potential dangers.
0000	The phenomenal success of games in recent years has seen them become the most popular pastime of hundreds of thousands of children.
0000	It wants the Government to mount a publicity campaign to highlight the problem and also called for an an independent body to be set up, funded by profits from the electronic games industry, to monitor the content of games.
0000	‘We should like to see parents control the amount of time their children spend on games, especially if it becomes clear that it is becoming more than a normal hobby,’ said the PAT deputy general secretary, Jackie Miller.
0000	After finding that large numbers were addicted, researchers then gave a psychological test to two groups of children — some of those with the heaviest addiction and others who did not play games.
0000	‘games are like lots of other children's hobbies — great in small doses.’
0000	But the advent of the game generation and the recession has consigned Roy of the Rovers to football's wastepaper basket.
0000	Detectives, who believe more than one person is behind the attacks, are using a sophisticated system to aid their inquiry.
0000	At an earlier hearing he had explained that initially he and his wife, Alison, a music lecturer, would answer letters from the licensing people after records showed no licence for their home.
0000	The victim, in his 30s, was hit in the arm and leg by the gunman outside a Belfast training centre for the disabled where he was learning skills.
0000	Fears over 1,000 plant jobs
0000	THE FUTURE of the Digital plant at Ayr and the 1,000 jobs there remained uncertain last night.
0000	The US giant, which employs 102,000 people worldwide, yesterday confirmed that the manufacturing facility at Ayr and another plant at Galway in the Republic of Ireland, which employs 1,200, are under review as part of the analysis of the company's operations.
0000	The Digital plant at Ayr was recently chosen to assemble based on the company's high performance Alpha microchip, which is produced at an £85 million facility at South Queensferry.
0000	Ms Richardson said that the plants at Ayr and Galway made aimed at different sections of the market.
0000	‘But clearly, although they are not producing for the same sector of the market place, they are both manufacturing plants.’
0000	Policeman is fined for use of
0000	A POLICEMAN was fined £500 yesterday after using the main police to check up on the boyfriend of a neighbour's daughter.
0000	McGregor, of Carson Drive, Irvine, denied knowingly breaching the Data Protection Act by using information in the Scottish Criminal Records Office for other than police purposes and disclosing the information to another.
0000	He said he had got the information from a .’
0000	Later investigations at Strathclyde Police headquarters in Glasgow revealed that two inquiries to police that night had originated in Saltcoats.
0000	A local police operator, John Brown, told the court that the inquiries had originated from McGregor.
0000	McGregor, who had been approached by a worried neighbour, admitted making use of the but claimed it was on legitimate police business.
0000	‘It is something we are constantly monitoring through our intelligence gathering work, which is linked through a Paisley-based to a worldwide network of customs intelligence.’
0000	HEADS of the US firm Digital yesterday heard last-minute appeals from both Scottish and Irish industry officials trying to save jobs in the company's European factories.
0000	He added that the meeting with Mr Palmer was better than expected, with the firm's boss promising to consider the points raised by the Irish delegation.
0000	Other features include a health spa with pre-flight grooming salon offering massage and aromatherapy, a library of more than 5,000 books, a music room, a study and a games room featuring the latest technology.
0000	Supporting development of and communications equipment to be used in schools and business training.
0000	AN EDINBURGH University student caused chaos on a vast scale by hacking into around the world from a £200 desktop machine in his bedroom, a London court was told yesterday.
0000	Paul Bedworth, 19, allegedly found a way to pay for the thousands of hours he spent connected to transatlantic networks.
0000	Bedworth denies conspiracy to use telecommunications dishonestly, conspiracy to gain unauthorised access to and conspiracy to make unauthorised modifications to information held on between June 1989 and June 1991.
0000	Mr Richardson claimed that, using a BBC microcomputer, the defendant was able to trick security systems into believing he was a bona fide systems analyst.
0000	Bedworth allegedly used the password of a Manchester University department and a network used by Leeds Polytechnic to get into international systems ‘by the back door’.
0000	A letter by Bedworth, found in his bedroom, encouraged other young addicts to copy him.
0000	A DECISION by the US company Digital on the future of their plants at Ayr and Galway is imminent.
0000	It is believed senior executives of the company in Boston are aware of the strain on Scottish and Irish employees waiting to hear which of the plants will suffer as a result of Digital's rationalisation of its European manufacturing operation, forced by world-wide recession and changes in the industry.
0000	The scene at the offices of BAeSEMA, the hi-tech design group, may have been more like a Blue Peter set than a serious example of the latest in navy design, but Adml Eaton appeared suitably impressed.
0000	A SCHOOLBOY hacker who caused worldwide chaos was banned from using the phone by his mum after running up enormous bills, a jury heard today.
0000	The teenager tapped into data systems across the world, including targets at the Financial Times and universities, using a £200 home his mother bought him for Christmas when he was 14.
0000	Bedworth, now 19, is facing charges under the Misuse Act, 1990.
0000	‘He connected a wire to his , ran it under the carpet downstairs and soldered it on to the line so he could still make calls.
0000	They all linked up to in the UK and abroad.’
0000	Bedworth, of North Parade, Ilkley, West Yorkshire, denies three charges under the Misuse Act 1990.
0000	A SCHOOLBOY hacker broke into British Telecom's networks because he felt the phone giant was ‘damn stupid’ and ‘greedy’, a court heard today.
0000	Earlier, the court was told Bedworth managed to tap into at EC buildings in Luxembourg, at the Financial Times newspaper in London and universities all over the globe.
0000	Bedworth and two other men are charged with a number of offences under the Misuse Act.
0000	The court heard Bedworth hacked for kicks and was so advanced he was able to change passwords.
0000	He also denies a further charge of conspiring to the unauthorised modification of and of conspiring to the unauthorised access of material.
0000	They communicated with him via messages on his screen.
0000	Mr Richardson said: ‘He caused havoc at universities all round the world, so the systems were inaccessible to anyone but him.
0000	‘Their aim was to defeat the experts and to deliberately lock out systems managers so they couldn't get into their ,’ said Mr Richardson.
0000	The compensation demanded would cover claims by Virgin that it lost revenue from passengers ‘poached’ by BA after gaining access to its records.
0000	Still at issue is whether BA can approach customers of Virgin without the data.
0000	Hacker crippled cancer , trial told
0000	A TEENAGE hacker knocked out a vital cancer treatment database when he keyed into a at a world famous centre for medical research, a court heard yesterday.
0000	Paul Bedworth, 19, now studying artificial intelligence at Edinburgh University, allegedly brought the Brussels system to a halt after commanding it to make 50,000 phone calls.
0000	The cancer research system crashed, halting vital research and ran up a bill of £10,000 making the calls.
0000	Southwark Crown Court was told that between 13 and 17 June 1991, Bedworth electronically intruded to the of the European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) on no fewer than 25 occasions.
0000	Vincent Piedboeuf, systems project leader for the international organisation, revealed that vital research into the disease had been halted when the became overloaded and crashed and said EORTC had been saddled with a gigantic phone bill.
0000	He told the jury that his were normally used only by doctors around the world.
0000	The triple system contained confidential clinical data including details of how long patients had to live.
0000	Mr Piedboeuf said: ‘The worst damage was that our broke down because of the heavy load.
0000	Mr Piedboeuf said he received an even greater shock when the EORTC's telephone bill — for phone lines connected to the — arrived.
0000	From the polytechnic, the court was told, Bedworth had been able to hack into systems all around the world using his microcomputer — a type found in many schools — as a master terminal.
0000	He denies conspiracy to use telecommunications dishonestly, conspiracy to gain unauthorised access to and conspiracy to make unauthorised modification to information held on .
0000	MORE than 1,000 Scottish jobs were secured yesterday with the confirmation that the US company Digital is to retain its Ayr plant.
0000	Digital's vice-president for manufacturing and logistics, Edward McDonough, said changes in the world market and the need for Digital to be close to its major customers — Britain is its largest single market in Europe — were the reason for cutting the Irish plant.
0000	A hacker caused ‘considerable disruption’ after keying into a vital database at one of Britain's newspapers which held the FTSE 100 share index, a court heard yesterday.
0000	Paul Bedworth, 19, an Edinburgh University student, was said to have used a £200 micro at his home in Ilkley, West Yorkshire, to dial up the Financial Times network and introduce a rogue programme to the high-technology system, Southwark Crown Court was told.
0000	In the process he allegedly deleted an important file, landed the organisation with a multi-thousand pound bill and forced managers to take a crucial system out of service while the damage was repaired.
0000	Tony Johnson, the Financial Times head of , said he had discovered the electronic intrusion in May 1991.
0000	A continual dialling programme which scanned networks had been introduced.
0000	‘We had to take out the affected and rent another.
0000	You need special cards to get in even if you are a visitor but so far as the is concerned that did not have the same security?’
0000	Mr Johnson replied: ‘It had a level of security where people could access only to deliver information to the .’
0000	Mr Macdonald then suggested: ‘The physical security simply was not matched (by the )?’
0000	Bedworth, now studying artificial intelligence at Edinburgh University, denies three conspiracy charges under the Misuse Act 1990 alleging unauthorised modification of information, securing unauthorised access to information and obtaining telegraphic services unlawfully.
0000	The Crown has claimed that by the time he was arrested in the summer of 1991 his alleged forays had breached security surrounding a number of systems including one at EC headquarters, another at a world famous centre for cancer research and treatment and others at various universities.
0000	Prof Marian Hicks, chairman of South West Thames Regional Health Authority, expressed regret at the distress caused from the failure of the system.
0000	Richard Fry, managing director of Pettrac, said schemes at Inverness and Glasgow would be linked to the Scottish Pet Register, a operated from the Glasgow Dog and Cat Home.
0000	Peter Rawlins, having failed in his mission to set up the stubbornly impracticable Taurus trading system, has done what used to be called the honourable thing.
0000	And yet, many will draw some sour satisfaction from the fact that the stockbroking trade, with its air of effortless mystique and superiority, is clearly no better at than the rest of us.
0000	Stress on the 12 anchors will be constantly monitored by a which will sound an alarm if there is a change in the angle of any the chains.
0000	Oag, formerly marketing director with a major industry concern in London, had grown tired of weekend commuting from Nairn, and began to look for a local company he could invest time and money in.
0000	DOCUMENT Image Processing is a way of turning paper files into files.
0000	More sophisticated systems can be attached to local or wide area networks or mainframe with corporate-wide ‘Workflow’ systems.
0000	Companies managing to buck the recession by having a good year include games manufacturers, cosmetics companies, food processors and shipbuilders.
0000	The basis of the calculations caused some confusion among oil companies which were planning to run overnight programs on the impact of the changes on their operations.
0000	Advanced Outlook, founded by Liam McGrath and Douglas Perrot, has invested £700,000 in technology to enable it to win contracts which are currently awarded to firms in Dubai and Hong Kong on account of the substantially lower labour costs there.
0000	Two teams of specialists are now at work, one to try and make sure the department's existing system can cope, the second to have a new system at work from 1 January next year.
0000	have been working overtime at corporate headquarters since last Tuesday's announcement in an attempt to assess the impact on individual project and company cash flow.
0000	It expanded into Kirkcaldy, Dundee and Dunfermline; extended into light commercial repairs, interior fabrication and painting of large commercials; introduced shot blasting and low bake oven systems and brought in a comprehensive system.
0000	THE explosive growth in the games market, now worth about £500 million a year, made a heavy dent in profits from conventional toys such radio-controlled cars, kits and train sets, causing many casualties.
0000	Era has dipped a toe in the games market, but is relying on the trend to toys for the whole family recreating a demand for conventional individual toys.
0000	Central recording of transactions would enable automatic screening for multiple and unjustified claims.
0000	The decision to sell games was rewarded by a near-fourfold jump in sales.
0000	A PLANNED 25 jobs are on hold following the failure of the Haymarket Shop in Edinburgh to buy the property assets of Ti'ko, the Broxburn-based manufacturer which collapsed last November.
0000	Haymarket had intended to set up a business with over 20 staff to build its own PCs under the brand Eyecon and sell them through a dealer network.
0000	Gordon Renton, CEC's managing director, has said he is only interested in the office equipment and will sell off the kit.
0000	In the first three months of last year, Ti'ko was listed as the UK's seventh largest direct selling manufacturer with a 5.3 per cent share of the market.
0000	Europe currently has 52 air traffic control centres, with 31 different systems, 18 different kinds of hardware and 20 operating systems with 70 different operating languages.
0000	As for Formula One racing, the day is fast approaching when the driver's presence will become mere tokenism in the face of control from the pits.
0000	Yes, we have no games.
0000	We don't have games in the house because…well, because the younger two children aren't quite old enough.
0000	Also, for the past six years have been essential, if initially unwelcome, tools in my job, and the idea of spending leisure time absorbing even more radiation from a cathode ray tube doesn't appeal.
0000	Six years ago the only I'd used was some horrid games machine a girlfriend had once become obsessed with.
0000	Then came the first truly affordable home with serious wordprocessing, the Amstrad PCW8256.
0000	It had dropped in price by £100, and it was time to enter the age.
0000	But I was an alien being in a green screen world, lost, weeping with rage and frustration, cuffing the poor old , banging my head off the keyboard.
0000	My approach to then and now remains the same.
0000	My father in his retirement has become a hobbyist, upgrading constantly, browsing through those 500-page magazines which sell the same in different boxes, assembled by underpaid and exploited single mothers in the Midlands.
0000	As for me, the things I expect a to do have advanced somewhat.
0000	Chapters can be quite long, and that means I need enough of a working memory in the gubbins itself to handle at least 6,000 words at a time.
0000	Then there is the wonderful world of electronic mail, by which this column will pop up in the North Bridge within the next few minutes.
0000	And the other thing is, I want to carry the around with me.
0000	Portability I solved years ago with a Tandy 102, a tiny, bounce-it-off-the concrete newspaperperson's which came complete with built-in programmes, a modem for firing stories down phone lines and virtually no memory.
0000	They think that if you're buying things for your child — the , video and TV — you're doing well by them, and they don't need a cuddle.
0000	Or his is taken away from him.
0000	He is the picture of the Good Life escapee, but the 200-acre farm and picturesque house hide a profitable secret: a full-time job with giants ICL, designing and troubleshooting software from a tiny office in his loft.
0000	In Orkney, favourite destination for many southerners fleeing the rat race, personal and modems are proliferating like the local rabbits.
0000	‘The error-correction on the has to work overtime occasionally,’ he admits.
0000	In his cluttered roof-void office-cum-spare bedroom, where clothes dry under the skylight and ergonomics is too big a word to fit in, he writes massive chunks of operating software for mainframe , programmes which can take between one and a half and ten ‘man years’ to complete.
0000	Like the night four years ago when the mainframe controlling all ship movements in and out of Hong Kong, the world's busiest harbour, crashed.
0000	In the Orkney Telecentre, a converted classroom at Kirkwall Academy, Ray Kastell conducts training courses and advises on telecommunications.
0000	Faxing and photocopying are made available to locals such as composer Peter Maxwell Davies, as well as training, consultancy work and the burgeoning design activity.
0000	Another, Wang Zhi, runs Great Wall Corp, one of China's new-style business conglomerates.
0000	‘I used to just swot up on learning the key words and churning them out fashion, but now I am more interested in what they mean.
0000	But with the help of Renfrew High School, 14 crates of books, pens and other equipment, including a , are being sent out to the African school.
0000	She said she slept in it because she worked on a that was only available to her at night and there was no point in going home after 2am.
0000	ARGYLL link for further education
0000	Daring data raider dependent on hacking fix Gillian Harris charts the decline of a popular boy who enjoyed a high-tech challenge to a reclusive man obsessed with
0000	PAUL BEDWORTH is small and slightly built but he was strong enough to push his mother down a flight of attic stairs when she tried to stop him using his .
0000	At their home in Ilkley, Yorkshire, Connie Bedworth fretted as her teenage son spent his days transfixed by his screen.
0000	At first, Paul and his friends swapped games.
0000	Then he grew bored with the games and joined a club.
0000	When he was 14, Paul was given a modem, a device used to send messages down telephone lines.
0000	At night when his mother was asleep, he would creep back to the to send messages.
0000	Paul used his to crack the code and continued as before.
0000	Having tutored himself at home, Paul received an A grade for A-level studies when he was 16.
0000	He threw her to the ground when she stood between him and his terminal one morning at 3am.
0000	‘He was always trying to get rid of me so that he could get back to his .
0000	But late one night in April 1991, Paul was arrested at his home and charged under the Misuse Act 1990.
0000	Last October Paul embarked on a science degree at Edinburgh University.
0000	He lived in a hall of residence but spent most of his time in the laboratory, sometimes staying there all night.
0000	‘He was always trying to get rid of me so that he could get back to his .
0000	THE idea of a whizz-kid gaining access to classified data by accidentally brushing against the right button is the stuff of fantasy, according to a security consultant at the National Computing Centre in Manchester.
0000	Chris Hook claims that it takes expert knowledge and a great deal of patience to hack into a system.
0000	hackers are helped in their quest for confidential information by bulletin boards which operate as electronic mailboxes available to subscribers.
0000	They contain telephone numbers for classified systems.
0000	Although determined hackers can breach the tightest security, Mr Hook insists that there are precautions organisations can take to lessen the risk.
0000	He also urges users to think up more imaginative passwords.
0000	Another way to thwart a hacker is to get daily print-outs of calls to the which would quickly weed out any suspicious activity , Mr Hook claimed.
0000	A DUNFERMLINE reader, James Wilkie, has won a £1,000 in The Scotsman Budget competition with a highly accurate prediction of Mr Lamont's plans.
0000	Mr Wilkie will shortly be receiving an AST 3/335 Bravo personal with 4Mb Ram, 80Mb hard disk drive, 14 in colour monitor, Dos, Windows and a mouse, which has been supplied by 20/20 Systems of Cowdenbeath and AST Europe.
0000	THE giant Amstrad yesterday announced what it said was the world's first ‘personal digital assistant’— a pocket-sized that allows the user to write directly on to the screen with a special pen.
0000	But he said the machine did not mean a return to the days of the mid-1980s when his company made huge profits from new equipment.
0000	He is thought likely to take a strong line against games like Nintendo and Sega, for failing to stimulate young minds.
0000	The NAO, the taxpayers' representative, said that by 31 March last year records of loans amounting to £21.3 million were incorrectly transferred out of a system for a considerable period.
0000	Loans are supposed to be repaid by deductions from future benefits, but it appears that a system has failed to keep track of claimants moving from one area to another.
0000	We have had a number of failures where the computerisation has resulted in loss of information and much more important for the taxpayer, losses to the taxpayer.’
0000	Told that the total amount missing was £37 million, but that the report seemed to suggest that £16 million was due to various errors, accounting procedures, and normal mistakes in transferring data into the , Mr Sheldon said a very high-powered body of Government specialists was on hand to offer advice on computerised activities.
0000	Sir John said in the NAO report that there had been a breakdown in the proper operation of the system.
0000	‘They also informed me that the new Social Fund system, to be introduced in 1993, would automatically perform these transfers.’
0000	Officers spent yesterday logging the information on to HOLMES, the police system.
0000	put eyes on the blink
0000	can be a blinking nuisance to operators, researchers have discovered.
0000	Japanese office workers were found to blink only one-third as often as normal when watching their , according to a study in the New England Journal of Medicine.
0000	They kept their eyes wide open so tears evaporated more easily and dry eyes can be a reason why people using complain of eye strain, the researchers said.
0000	On the basis of the first projections after polling stations closed last night, the alliance of the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic (RPR) and the centre-right Union for French Democracy (UDF) was expected to win up to 85 per cent of the 577 parliamentary seats with just 40 per cent of the votes.
0000	Ian Lang warned them not to let young minds be stupefied by games and video nasties, and encouraged local authorities to prosecute parents whose children were regular truants.
0000	A STRIKE by thousands of foremen, salesmen, and and personnel staff at the Ford yesterday was a total success, according to the unions.
1993	Gel readings were assembled into contigs using the IBI AssemblyLign program on Apple Macintosh .
1993	analysis was accomplished with software from the Genetics Group (GCG)(27).
1993	A search of protein databases with the predicted Drosophila amino acid sequence revealed homologies consistent with those previously reported for the human protein.
1993	With the exception of these applications, the programs can be run from Macintosh and IBM PC compatibles connected to the network.
1993	A search using E.coli SbcD identified significant homology with ORF3, the product of an open-reading frame immediately downstream of the addAB operon in B.subtilis (2).
1993	analysis
1993	Recombination distances were calculated as described (40) using the program SPRETUS MADNESS developed by D.Dave (Data Management Services Inc., Frederick, MD) and A.M.Buchberg (NCI-FCRDC, ABL-BRP, Frederick, MD).
1987	Shout, they'd shout something but er  well since we've been living up here, my mother used to give, the man used to come for the order for the grocery, the baker used to come round, the milk used to come round, they all used to come round at she'd ha she didn't have go out for heavy loads of stuff to bring in it was all delivered, but when they started some new technique of er of ordering by , it's going to come back to square one again you know, they'll be delivering stuff in the same jolly old way hey.
1987	Give it fifty years and I'll bet you that the baker and all the rest of the folks, it'll be coming from a supermarket, but they'll be delivering stuff that you've put on your .
1987	In the days, in those days yes, but nowadays what is it, it's er such a fantastic erm step forward really, it's all on radio, er where at the press of a button you get radio contact between headquarters and any fire engine, between any officer in the fire engine, you can call firemen by radio at their house, and at the fire station, erm I mean this is, is, is really progress and erm might be complicated, I'm sure it has its problems as well, but for a matter of speed er  and as well coming in with it, the whole thing now is, is very sophisticated and erm very modern, and I think that's probably been the, probably the biggest step forward here.
1993	It sounds like the stuff of science fiction, but soon you'll be able to order up concert tickets while watching television using your set just like a .
1993	Telephone, television and technology are converging and high tech companies are scrambling for a slice of the action.
1993	The consultants called in by the Home Office identify and information technology generally as the best way of saving time.
1993	They're using and virtual reality technology to interpret historical records.
1993	Using historical records scientists have reconstructed the building, fifteen hundred years after it was ruined.
1993	Inside these roman baths, the marriage of archaeology and science is complete.
1993	Recreating ancient buildings involves a lot of painstaking work translating archaeological records into code.
1993	First you make a fairly detailed ground plan, and then you essentially turn that ground plan into a three dimensional plan inside the .
1993	But then once the 's got that, you just have to say, pretend I'm standing here, and the 's capable of saying, This is what you would see.
1993	using almost three thousand hours of work on a major , the result is a stunning walk through the abbey as it would have appeared in the eleventh century.
1993	Scientists are excited by this approach to archaeology and they've plans to reconstruct other great buildings of the past bringing them to life once again.
1993	People could fill in forms in shops or supermarkets, choosing random numbers which would be scanned and fed to a central with the results announced live on a weekly T V spectacular.
1994	Er, I don't physically have to type out the labels, but I have physically have to be in the office, to initiate the sorts, because under something called personal job insurance scheme, I've layered the sort of routine under a lot of security codes and I'm only, the only person who knows where they are.
1994	You know, the goes down for a hour, it's three-quarters of the day to get everything back and validated, and that's a major interruption.
1994	So in mine for example, C er, is er, public courses, D is marketing, E are in-house courses, and F are .
1994	Yeah but if we can get him onto the system  he'll do two days a week if he can do it
1994	eight Keith, sounds like an interesting one, training purchase for C A staff
1994	Yep, there's been a lot of occasions in the last two to three months when I could really have done with access to a .
1994	What I'm saying to you is, erm I don't expect for one minute to have a installed in my office,ccessdon'tw alter it to that a particular way, and to
1994	What do you want to use the for?
1994	the printer would do that, but your machine here would be linked into a storage storage system here at Mansfield which every now and again it sends all the information down the telephone lines to headquarters, and it's done every is it every two hours?
1994	Well they sent me, I went on a course two days before I went to in hospital and was away for  eight weeks and I forgot totally
1994	I think we still have priority at the moment to , in effect Paul is going to
1993	I used to maintain radars and systems and stuff like that, I was an engineer.
1994	If we need people with financial experience and managerial experience, then appoint them to the local to the Police Committee, given them a job to do, they're the ones that are should advise the Chief Constable and the Police Committee as to whether they're spending the right of money on and are using it properly, not whether they're using them operationally correctly.
1993	Er anything
1989	Lowell's brain was ticking over figures like a demented — so that was where the money was going — a mink jacket, or a mink coat — whichever, it was good-bye to a thousand plus.
1989	He was a good strategist, delegated carefully, and made full use of , working from his office most of the time.
1991	Finally, there is the industry, which ‘MITI has unequivocably dominated’(Kaplan, 1975, p. 78).
1991	The culmination was the Very Large-Scale Integration project involving MITI's electronics research institute, the state and telecommunications laboratory and five major manufacturers.
1991	As well as assisting technology development, MITI organized a leasing corporation to lease only Japanese on competitive terms to those available abroad.
1991	While Japanese were hardly a factor in the boom years, they were to become a major force in the 1980s.
1991	As late as 1977 the biggest five firms in aerospace, office equipment (including ), scientific and photographic equipment were still American, as were the biggest four in paper and wood, the biggest three in vehicles, the biggest two in electronics and rubber, and three out of the biggest five in petroleum, industrial equipment and food.
1991	Money is often telexed or cabled abroad, or nowadays ‘sent’ via systems known as SWIFT.
1991	There has been some suggestion that trading techniques have been partly responsible for the crash (or what is called programme trading).
1991	The importance of is that these arbitrage opportunities can be quickly spotted and capitalised upon.
1991	A fund manager could carry out all of the above deals without a programme needed, although it would be much slower.
1991	The problem thus does not lie with and trading but in the link between the futures and equity markets.
1991	Soft commissions are payments in the form of portfolio valuation, hardware and software, to fund managers by brokers in return for a certain amount of business each year.
1991	Loss of confidence will hasten the insolvency of the institution if a ‘run’ occurs, and fraud can occur in any and every function of a financial institution, and the risks involved can often be counted in millions, particularly in cases of fraud.
1990	This ‘growth industry’ feeds on accelerating social change and the increase of centralized planning and control and is aided by the 's ability to store vast amounts of data and produce extensive tabular summaries.
1990	(Occasional controversy in the press has caused public concern that medical records held by are less confidential than those left lying around general practice receptionists' rooms and hospital records offices.
1990	An enormous amount of information is now collected on the performance of individual pupils throughout their school and further education careers and on numbers and grades of teaching staff, e.g. the Universities Statistical Record held on the UCCA .
1990	Data analysis and the
1990	13.1 THE
1990	Nowadays almost all statistical analysis is accomplished with the aid of electronic .
1990	What has certainly decreased over the years is the proportion of analyses made by qualified statisticians; the has brought to researchers an era of ‘do-it-yourself’.
1990	Unfortunately many still stand in such awe of the as to believe that any analysis achieved thereby must be correct.
1990	The can produce great volumes of rubbish at incredible speed.
1990	We digress a little at this point to introduce some of the jargon of the world.
1990	A is controlled by its central processing unit (CPU) operating on the core (or memory) which contains the instructions of the stored program (note the spelling) and also immediately required data.
1990	(The ability to store and hence repeat sequences of instructions is what characterizes the as distinct from the desk or pocket calculator.)
1990	The operating system which arranges the sharing of the among several concurrent users, catalogues any data that are to be preserved in files for later use and provides various ‘housekeeping’ facilities helpful to the user;
1990	The user, seated in front of a video display unit (VDU), interacts directly with the , inspecting the results produced by one request before deciding on the next.
1990	This is the term coined to encompass all the personnel who surround (and fuss over) the modern — electronic engineers, systems programmers, applications programmers, duty advisers, information officers and those who give courses to would-be users.
1990	Two or three numbers might be required as input to a calculation lasting several hours, impossible to accomplish except by and producing only a small volume of output.
1990	In psychological experiments, data are often derived directly by presenting the experimental subject with the required test via the screen of a terminal; this is clearly most useful for visual perception studies.
1990	For the time being, it remains true that most studies require some form of typing activity (key punching) in the preparation of data for the .
1990	If the volume of data will permit, ‘calling over’ the information as received by the  against the earliest written documents can be helpful.
1990	In addition the itself can readily be made to perform certain checks.
1990	This process is usually mounted on a small dedicated to data entry, thus avoiding unnecessary use of the main machine; the transfer takes place only when the data are complete and free from error.
1990	In all the discussion of this subsection, we are assuming that, after input to the , the data will form a named file in the backing store.
1990	The greater benefit of the to statisticians is therefore that it does not become ‘bored’ by a large number of simple tasks.
1990	are likewise good at some kinds of coding (e.g. social class from occupation), grouping (e.g. allocation to age class) and calculation of elapsed times (e.g. date of survey-data of birth).
1990	It must be remembered that are usually accurate to only six or seven decimal figures (whereas the average desk calculator can work to ten- or eleven-place accuracy).
1990	The we are using has a precision of six decimal figures.
1990	The squares of the data values require more than six decimal figures and must therefore be truncated by the .
1990	Further, and hence  We now have the embarrassing impossibility of a negative sum of squares and must conclude that method (b) is unsatisfactory for use even though it is the more practicable for hand calculation.
1990	For example, a hospital, wishing to evaluate the possible benefits of introducing a pneumatic tube system for the transfer of blood samples between wards and laboratory, could use a to mimic the behaviour of the network under varying routine and emergency demand patterns and thus explore potential overload problems.
1990	However, current developments in the area of artificial intelligence do hold some promise of making available an efficient blend of human intuition and slog.
1990	In the use of for statistical analysis, the greatest difficulty relates to data input and validation.
1990	The quality of even the latest software is not above reproach and much remains to be done to ensure that the is the servant rather than the master of its users.
1990	Coding will probably be required in preparation for analysis.
1990	The interpretation of the output from the is basically as required by 1 but, almost always, new questions arise during the course of the study.
1990	the programmer.
1990	The analysis phase covers conversion of the information collected into a form suitable for input, validation, calculation of appropriate statistics, interpretation of these and preparation of a report.
1990	Yates, F. and Anderson, A.J.B. (1966) A general program for the analysis of factorial experiments.
1990	It is most useful where records are to be sampled by from an unknown number held on, say, a magnetic tape.
1990	As the sampling proceeds, therefore, a continual shuffling of proposed sample members into and out of an auxiliary subfile is required, a procedure ideally suited to the .
1983	These vowel changes are brought about by rules — not the sort of rules that one might teach to language learners, but more like the instructions that one might build into a machine or write into a program.
1983	consume a considerable amount of money and time.
1983	Many students find it very helpful to sit in the phonetics laboratory looking at a display showing a picture of their pitch movements.
1983	Until recently, the acoustic analysis of speech has been such a    slow and laborious business that only small samples of speech could be analysed, but recent developments in the use of are making it possible to carry out analysis on a much larger scale.
1983	Not only is it possible to get an accurate analysis of the fundamental frequency of speech (which can be displayed on a screen for someone doing practice on intonation, or can be used in the study of the intonation of large samples of natural speech), but it is now possible to get a to produce a simple phonetic transcription of what is said to it.
1983	If such techniques are further developed, it should be possible to use to provide additional pronunciation training at times when a human teacher is not available.
1983	Here again, developments in are bringing about rapid changes.
1992	Indeed the service element of industrial selling is often incorporated into the selling process itself, e.g. salespeople may offer to conduct an analysis of customer requirements and produce a written report in order to complete a sale.
1992	In selling, for example, successful selling requires an appreciation of which system is most appropriate given customer needs and resources.
1992	In different companies there may be different key people, e.g. secretaries,(office stationery), production engineers (lathes), design engineers (components), managing directors (), so the salesperson needs to be aware of the real need to treat each organisation individually.
1992	The salesperson will have a number of systems to suit the needs and resources of different customers.
1992	A salesperson may carry out a survey of customer requirements prior to suggesting an appropriate system.
1992	‘Why do you believe that a system is inappropriate for your business?’
1993	A report from the National Audit Office last week revealed that £21.3 million in Social Fund loans had been ‘incorrectly transferred’ from a system which had broken down.
1993	Receiving offices had failed to register loans on the .
1993	Bichard said a new automatic transfer system would soon be introduced.
1993	Sheelagh Mullany, a business studies teacher, is using school to teach word-processing to a group of parents.
1993	Most popular being holidays (41%), and software (11%).
1993	CLASS managing director and software expert David Jones claims the cattle videoed in their own environment look and feel their best.
1993	A analyst died from a massive brain haemorrhage 36 hours after surgeons performed an exploratory operation.
1993	The building will cater for art, sculpture, film, print-making, design and textiles.
1993	But programmer Mike, 32, said many fund-raising events are still to be held.
1993	programmer Mike, 32, added that many fund-raising events are still to be held.
1993	technology is to help town hall chiefs beat the winter weather.
1993	‘These sensors are linked to a in Stockport and give a continuous weather picture.
1993	‘The duty engineer will consult the before deciding to call out the gritting teams.’
1993	The cuts will hit managers, clerical and staff and could lead to workers being made redundant before Christmas, said the Banking, Insurance and Finance Union.
1993	The redundancies include 80 senior managers, 150 branch managers, 120 staff and 90 clerical staff, it claimed.
1993	He admitted a further 17 charges involving the breach of software and video copyright law.
1993	John Cleary, 25, a analyst in Winchester, had been complaining of tiredness, headaches and dizziness for four weeks.
1993	Lost bytes: experts IBM have urged businesses to increase their back-up facilities after a survey commissioned by them suggests that up to £1.5bn a year is lost through breaches and damage to systems.
1993	Eventually he managed to sit in a chair unaided and began to attend the hospital school, where he operated a with a mouth-held drumstick.
1993	6.15am: Fire service uses the Government's Chemdata for information on Alloprene and discovers that possible toxic products from fire are hydrochloric acid, carbon tetrachloride and phosgene.
1993	‘We can all look back and remember how Amstrad took hi-fi to the mass market, how it removed the mystique from the and exploded the market.’
1993	THE London Ambulance Service said yesterday that it had no immediate plans to revert to its gremlin-plagued call-out system.
1993	Experts are still trying to locate the fault which caused another shutdown of the £1m Aided Despatch system.
1993	A control room duty manager ordered staff to revert to the manual logging of emergency system early yesterday after the slowed down.
1993	Last week, the broke down completely for 36 hours and it is claimed this may have resulted in up to 20 deaths.
1993	A fire brigade spokesman said they had fed the name of the compound into a and the print-out said it could be toxic if it caught fire.
1993	But sport is fighting an uphill battle against the recession and competing leisure time activities ranging from videos to and home shopping, the survey adds.
1993	Bottomley orders inquiry into 999 failures
1993	The move is aimed at restoring public confidence following the breakdown of the emergency 999 call system.
1993	It has been claimed the failure on October 26 and 27 and again on Wednesday led to the deaths of some patients.
1993	His team will include Paul Williams, a specialist in systems, and Dennis Boyd, formerly chief conciliation officer at the Acas arbitration service.
1993	He said: ‘It is vital that this inquiry should not only tell the full story of the system debacle but also thoroughly examine the long-standing difficulties of London's ambulance services.’
1993	Based in South John Street, Liverpool, the free service is also available on TAP in 11 other stations around Merseyside, such as careers offices.
1993	Chamber chiefs claim Contact Point East Germany IV will particularly benefit companies trading in such sectors as architecture, chemistry, , management consultancy, transport and education.
0000	He has also helped Spears, the makers of Scrabble, in compiling their 15O, OOO word long Official Scrabble Word List, and in choosing which version of the game to endorse.
0000	She spent 18 years working for director of statistics and , Mr Ramm, and was then secretary to Len Payne, director of distribution.
0000	Doug is a committee member of a local day centre, which desperately needed the new furniture the money was able to buy.
0000	Sainsbury's likes to keep up with children's crazes and, following the success of the SuperMario party cake designed by Jane Asher, SuperMario Mini rolls have now been launched.
0000	Each mini roll is individually wrapped and features a character from the SuperMario game.
1993	They are guides produced in bite-sized sections, covering various aspects of the business, such as product knowledge, colour matching, systems and commercial procedures.
1993	Self-help is still the emphasis, with people using , video and audio aids to learn-as-they-go.
1993	is also keen to link up more closely with Courtaulds' Research, offering training on systems, project management and other subjects.
1993	The money went into upgrading the two main production lines and creating a ‘mission control’— an area resembling a ship's bridge — from where the whole process is monitored by .
1993	While all this is happening the compiles an historical record of what goes on — a valuable data base from which lessons can be learned.
1993	A DISABLED Courtaulds employee somewhere in the world will benefit from a fund set up for tragic expert .
1993	She often visits her parents — her father still works on the farm seven days a week at the age of 72 — but she has no plans to swap her desktop for a tobacco setting machine.
1993	Lina spends a lot of her time working on sales documents, using a for word processing and Lotus 123.
1993	A new network, linking desktop PCs at Group sites across the country, will enable data to be processed more speedily, efficiently and accurately.
1993	‘It should speed up the whole process and save money for companies currently using outside services,’ said , project manager for Management Information Services at Courtaulds Coatings Inc.
1993	wizard Colin Saunders has won £2,000 worth of hardware and software in an Auto CAD user-of-the-year competition.
1993	Porter International scored a big hit at the National Conference of the Steel Structures Painting Council, held in Kansas City, Missouri, by mounting a screen show on several terminals.
1993	GLOBAL electronic mail, with desktop linking Courtaulds businesses round the world, has moved a step nearer reality.
1993	‘I see no reason why we should not have E-mail linking 80 per cent of Group users worldwide within 18 months.’
1993	Self-contained with sales, accounts, administration, laboratories and manufacturing, the Jakarta business's various facets are linked through the MFG network gradually being introduced across the Group.
1993	Five-year project complete
1993	The room outline is drawn on the Autocad, a drawing aid familiar to engineers and draughtsmen, which runs software customised for Amtico.
1993	The plant is fully automated with all processes operated by a control .
1993	The bus is fully equipped with video facilities, , electric display equipment and exhibition boards.
1993	This data is then analysed by a .
1993	Currently, clothing represents almost 50 per cent of Fibres' business, with carpets and products for industrial uses [from conveyor belt reinforcement to ribbons and parachutes]both expanding rapidly and profitably.
1993	Davies, an arable crop specialist, is one of a team of four ICI Fertilizer experts offering ‘Nitram’ users a free service which pinpoints the exact day when a farmer should apply his product in order that the crop can best use the nitrogen.
1993	A simple telemetering station at the customer's plant is linked via a dedicated telephone line to the Stockmaster at Billingham.
1993	The regularly calls the telemetering station and when it is time for the customer to replenish his stocks, the ICI Customer Service representative simply calls to confirm the next order.
1993	The bar code will include the destination and contents of the delivery and will enter the information on a personal to produce a loading list.
1993	08.15 Melanie Harrison, ‘Diakon’ /‘Procom’distribution clerk at Wilton, interrogates POPE system and confirms that the three boxes in stock are not committed to another customer.
1993	Recent innovations with aided design enable us to produce magazines which are more creative, efficient and cost effective.
1992	Grid Control is equipped with some of the most modern systems in the world.
1992	The systems at the Grid Control Centre are supported by standby facilities on site and at a remote location.
1992	The Grid Control will then continuously check this data to ensure that the system is maintained within set limits.
1992	We have an enormous amount of data stored on nationwide.
1992	Critical Path Analysis is a programme into which variables relating to a particular project are fed.
1992	IF an unforeseen problem occurs, extreme weather conditions say, this data can be fed into the and a revised target date instantly given.
1992	Is illiteracy a problem?
1992	BASIC SKILLS
0000	At a recent CIT Metropolitan Section meeting, Brian Cox, MD of Stagecoach Rail, suggested a National Ticket Office through which tickets could be sold, presumably through a nationwide facility.
0000	is was decided to purchase software, from a specialist house, which would enable Field Directors to have quite detailed inventory and operational performance data regarding the fleets under their control.
0000	From that point of view, it is a pity that Philip Shearman who has a distinguished reputation, does not offer the student his alternative opinion on the current important issues of government regulation, global alliances, the auctioning of airport slots or, for that matter, the strengthening hold and control of the marketplace by the large travel agents and CRS (reservation systems).
0000	Invisibles are, in fact anything else which earns money for the UK such as tourism, transport services, consultancy, programming and training to name but a few.
0000	INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY systems are playing an increasingly important role in the transport industry.
0000	Write a letter to your
0000	For many people the biggest problem with using a is simply that you have to type something on the keyboard to achieve anything at all.
0000	What is really need is a that will understand your writing.
0000	Getting a to do that is not easy.
0000	However, the development of increasingly powerful processors and some clever software means the pen-based are starting to become available at a realistic price.
0000	Pen-based are not only easier to use — they can also be more portable than standard key-board-based machines.
0000	To start with you must teach the to recognise your writing by giving it examples of the way you write individual letters.
0000	Then, as your write a letter the interprets it and pops up the letter it thinks you have written.
0000	Windows is rapidly becoming the standard for personal interfaces so it is very easy for someone to move to using the pen version.
0000	The ‘pen’ is actually a plastic stylus — the simply notes the points where it touches the screen.
0000	An even more portable is produced by Fujitsu Persona; Systems.
0000	Clearly there is a range of similar applications such as warehouses and supermarkets where someone has to go around checking stock and then enter the data into a .
0000	Parcels delivery is another area where pen could make a big impact.
0000	Some companies are already introducing systems that enable recipients to sign for a package straight into the .
0000	A salesman can go to a customer, write in an order and download it to his company's main at the end of the day.
0000	Although technology has reached the point where such systems are becoming widely viable, they are still expensive compared to the old-fashioned keyboard-based .
0000	And character recognition is relatively slow and prone to errors even on powerful .
0000	However, the technology is moving very fast and, as pen come into common usage, prices will fall as dramatically as the prices of conventional have over the last couple of years.
0000	Pen-based computing is a major step in that direction, Until someone builds a you can talk to that isn't the size of a filing cabinet there is likely to be an easier way to communicate with your technology.
0000	For example it has just formed a partnership with Lotus, the software giant, to allow users of ‘cc:Mail’ the Lotus electronic mail system to send and receive messages while they are on the move.
0000	This is an in-cab system that transmits data back to the home base using RAM's network.
0000	No-one wanted personal until an American called Dan Bricklin invented a piece of software that would do lots of boring calculations in the blink of an eye.
0000	Even today, the spreadsheet is probably the single most useful piece of software for technical and business users.
0000	Here are all these producing huge amounts of information and completely unable to share it with other .
0000	Software designers will never agree to a standard format for the data in their programs so instead there has to be another piece of software that will bundle the information into a standard format to enable it to be transmitted to another .
0000	More than half of Britain's smallest companies do not use personal , according to a MORI survey commissioned by IBM.
0000	And six out of ten of the companies that do not use PCs said they would never buy a at any time in the future.
0000	Pre-reading skills are catered for through the enjoyment of games, jigsaws and programmes.
0000	The School has responded positively to the technological demands of the new Standard Grade courses and has installed in the Department ten ‘Applemac’ adding to the not inconsiderable quantity of equipment already there.
0000	At Standard Grade pupils carry out an investigation in a topic which interests them and by the Sixth Year each will be capable of using the Heriot-Watt University model of the economy.
0000	The features prominently in both the Standard Grade and Higher courses, particularly in terms of spreadsheet applications.
0000	The new Computing Suite contains a network of 35 Apple Macintosh linked to laser, dot matrix and bubblejet printers.
0000	All pupils in these years follow a general familiarisation course in applications timetabled for one period each week.
0000	They also study simulations of the use of in applications such as shops, libraries, airlines, police records, etc.
0000	This course continues and extends the S1 and S2 courses with the addition of systems theory and programming.
0000	There is a thriving Club open to all secondary pupils provided they apply while there are still places vacant.
0000	The Department makes good use of the technology of video and .
0000	Pupils are encouraged to use the Departmental to access information from databases, and as part of simulation exercises.
0000	The Maths Department assists in an S1 and S2 Familiarisation course which is allocated one period per week.
0000	Short blocks of study covering all classroom instruments, ensemble playing and inventing (including experience of ) provide something to suit all tastes, and lay the foundations for S.C.E. courses later on.
0000	Demand for the new course in Graphic Communication has been high in the School and with the latest in Aided Graphics and Design forming an integral part of the course it is already proving very popular with our pupils.
0000	In addition there is a careers section where pupils can make use of the information on or in documents relating to all branches of future employment and to university and college entrance.
0000	We have courses and careers information such as prospectuses, careers folders, videos, reference books, discs etc..
0000	You may well have a at home or have used one somewhere else.
0000	are becoming more popular every day and because they are so useful, it is important that you learn something about them.
0000	You will learn about the words people use when talking about .
0000	You will also learn to find your way round the keyboard, and how to use when working with words, numbers and pictures.
0000	We hope you will enjoy this subject and if you are really interested you can also join the Club.
1991	‘No,’ said Boris ‘You think that toys are babyish and you want a !’
1991	With Game  Boys and other you don't need to use your imagination.
1991	There is also a microfiche catalogue which is like a miniature card catalogue which you may need some help with and the catalogue which you will definitely need some help with.
1993	Already all major buildings are linked together by fibre optic cable and by the end of this year all offices and most teaching rooms will have an outlet to an integrated network for academic, library and administrative services, and 90 per cent of academic staff should have a networked microcomputer on their desks.
1993	Users value the network for the access it gives to and information resources on campus but perhaps even more so for the gateway it provides to JANET, the network linking hundreds of institutions and thousands of in the UK.
1993	During the 80s most of our terminals and could transmit just under 10,000 bits of information per second.
1993	Based Learning — Multimedia Courseware now being developed could be delivered, or indeed remotely accessed, over a sufficiently fast network.
1993	Supercomputing — High-performance costing millions of pounds cannot be sited at every university that needs their computational power; Yet the vast amounts of data they produce require advanced data visualisation techniques for their human understanding.
1993	Telepresence — Live interactive television links, supported by remote display of prerecorded material or by output from or laboratory equipment as appropriate, will allow academic and administrative meetings, lectures, seminars and demonstrations to take place with the participants at different geographical locations, saving time and travel costs and opening new opportunities for collaboration.
1993	Virtual Personal Computing — the attractive use of graphics, colour, sound and the ‘mouse’ which have eased the acceptance of AppleMacs and PCs at this University, have been built upon the high bandwidth once only available between components of a single personal .
1993	networking on campus has made possible the introduction of a Campus Wide Information Service [CWIS.
1993	This information can be accessed by students and staff from their desktop ; in addition a number of special, easy to use ‘Information Points’ have been set up throughout the campus [for example in the library, the Cottrell Foyer and the Pathfoot Resource Centre].
1993	In March and information services specialists from all over Scotland and Tyneside converged on the Stirling Management Centre to see the CWIS in action and to hear how it had been put together.
1984	‘What do you know about ?’
1984	Even the mystique has gone — these days we ‘professional’ people fall prey to micro maniacs at dinner parties.
1984	‘Ah — — well, I'm working on a DO loop using the EPRON and the RAM via the BUS on my ZX81.
1984	Medau provides an essential change of pace, after hectic days in the fast-moving business.
1987	These are now kept on disc and copies can be run iff at any time.
1992	3 million
1988	And well done,, on getting into the M.A!
1988	Your letters have been coming quite regularly, and apart from the couple of letters which reached me via Sian, nothing has interrupted the flow, and they are a comfort, especially as the children seem to be getting on so well, and the course as well.
1988	We decided it would be a good idea to develop a corpus of British English, intended to match the Brown University Corpus of American English which had recently become available, and which was the first corpus of modern English.
1988	In the previous year, 1977, a group of linguistics including ,,(of Brown University),, and myself met in Oslo and founded the International Archive of Modern English, an organization to develop and promote the use of corpora such as the LOB Corpus, the Brown Corpus, and the London-Lund Corpus (this last consisting of spoken texts of the Survey of English Usage).
1988	This organization has continued to flourish, as the use and availability of corpora of English has grown.
1988	This arrangement continued for eight years, and enabled me not only to work on several books, but also to continue with my research.
1988	We now have at Lancaster a team of researchers, working in the Unit for Research on the English Language (UCREL), of which  (of the Computing Department) and I are joint founders and directors.
1988	After the completion of the corpus of British English, the LOB Corpus, our first task was to undertake an automatic grammatical tagging of the corpus.
1988	That is, every word in the million-word corpus was assigned a tag indicating its grammatical category, and complex programs had to be written for this purpose.
1988	I find this work very exciting because, little by little, we are teaching the more about the structure of English, and how to analyse English, using large corpora as a source of frequency data.
1988	Through my work on natural language processing by , I have also become interested in Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL).
1988	in English Language Teaching and Research (Longman, 1986); and ,, and  (eds.),
1988	One calculation that is beyond even our is the number of people who help.
1993	It pleases me because I was afraid music was being pushed out by — and I was chuffed to find that I could still ‘work’ the pedals after more than 50 years!
1993	I am sure you would be amused if you could see me struggling to do such a basic ‘thing’ as merely use it as a word processor!
1993	Roger did not do as well as hoped in his ‘A’ levels, but will probably go to Birmingham to do a BSc in Engineering.
1993	He has been toying with various possibilities (we suggested he could come to us & repeat the year at Oban High — a somewhat unlikely proposition, I admit) but seems likely to plump for a 4-year course at Birmingham, leading to a BSc in Engineering.
1992	We just want a bit of information about setting up a .
1992	I'm always sorting out people's for them.
1992	I said I always carry Xtree, I'm always sorting out  people's for them.
1992	Now then  er  I wanna get back onto your .
1992	Erm they've  there's all the different amount of things you've gotta learn  I mean  it's even different from a  from a isn't it?
1992	And a you've got a spellchecker.
1992	A and a printer, mm.
1992	You see the beauty of  the beauty of the  or wordprocessor compared to an electronic typewriter is you can finish your document and then do your spellcheck.
1992	It's done by .
1992	If it's her though, they might just  erm, thingy it and change it to suit them.
1992	A senior citizen is one who was here before the pill, before television, frozen food, credit card and ballpoint pens, for us timesharing meant togetherness, not and a chip meant a piece of wood, hardware meant hardware and software wasn't even a word, teenagers never wore slacks, we were before pantyhose, drip-dry clothes, dishwashers, clothes driers and electric blankets, we got married first and then lived together
1992	and er is it too late for Bob's for Grant  Bobby?
1992	Do you want to play  game?
1992	Cos Grant's gone off to play with his for a few minutes.
1992	You can only play your for twenty minutes, Grant cos it's late.
1992	Give Daddy a surprise and then he can come up and play the .
1992	She can use a
1992	in your ?
1992	and I've been playing with my .
1992	He can handle that scrabble beautifully, Bobby and he played last night on his own and he scored one thousand, was it three hundred
1992	You got to play for you!
1992	It said do, do you want the to have a name
1992	you called you've called  the mummy, ha, ha, you're cheating.
1992	Mummy was in the kitchen here and the played me.
1992	It was, it's slow when you don't have the just doing it on its own.
1992	save it on .
1991	Now he was, I know he blinded me with science but he wa , he was really very good and he had his there and he went through all these different societies and plans.
1991	which was his job and and had everything there and he, he patched through to this this place and  different that he had.
1991	She'd got  thing in her  in her er  yeah  what's  what it is up  she damaged it ooh some years ago  and it's been a bit weak since like, you know  but sh it was only a few weeks ago we got some  big , with big discs and  she twisted her hand in in pulling one out, you know it's  I don't how, the fell or something and she went to cash it or whatever    and of course we're riding the motorbike for the  like you have to change gear  it's only a small seater, your bike's open
1992	And the, the son-in-law's got a, a hasn't he?
1992	I know my, my sister's er grandson, he's had a , he's fourteen  and er  anyway, oh he wanted a bigger one costing about eight hundred pounds.
1992	Ooh he, he's m mind you he, he reckons that's what he wants to do when he's older but  I mean the life, or the career of anybody in is not very long is it?
1992	I mean my, one of my friend's  sons, he was a man, he was working on his own but he's in his  I should think he's getting on for about forty six  and he was doing freelance but this recession  the people who er the firms who were employing him are using their own staff  and they're not calling on him now and er  he's not done any computing for twelve months.
1992	And that was all, that was all , all .
1992	So all those people are out
1992	And especially these where they change every
1992	No what the they'll do, they'll put all the words that are used into a er from all these things won't they?
1992	looked it up on the er, on the for me.
1991	You can't have a put the eggs in the pans because it's got to be it's got to be done manually by a worker.
1991	.
1991	We've got the fifty pound .
1991	We bought  a fifty pound and said to Kevin you can keep it.
1991	Dave  these been  you know  up in the air for about six months and Dave said you've gotta get it repaired he said, cos you know y he's gotta print out on it and everything
1991	and erm  you know, and I said Carla needs it for work  anyway so Dave said I'm gonna while I'm on holiday I'm gonna do all the stupid jobs, so I can take that in
1991	We've gotta  pay for your .
1991	videos, games.
1991	A camera, a telly, , a video recorder  yeah?
1991	But she's got about six different firms on the and was comparing notes.
1991	I erm  got, check you've got two days, you've got give me the estimate, it's got to be on because she's expecting it to be done straight away on the and sent.
1992	database.
1992	, you know, software on .
1992	Oh I'm really pleased about that, cos last time on a, I was really disappointed I'd been refused the course cos I thought oh, it'll be right up my street that, cos when I was teaching full time I was quite into these er at the beginning and the one that went
1992	Does Christopher, haven't they got any, does Christopher do any er,com
1992	These will then be transcribed and and built into a database which will contain several million words.
1992	But you see  they've had in hospitals now for  years
1992	erm, you, you know your , your thingy
1992	When Gem was up here the other day she was telling us about one of them teachers who plays games instead of giving lessons
1992	Yeah, they were playing Batman games it's a new
1992	increasingly I think nowadays  people  converse in  not a foreign language, because the  terms that people use are  familiar but meanings that they  intend  are not, and th th th the people are the worst because they use ordinary words  which mean completely different things in the
1992	No a
1992	systems.
1992	the file is there, that's a term, or  exactly that, a l a, a listing of names, addresses and houses and cars and everything else, and a file is a defined term, what you do with it is the next thing
1992	Well the, the, the, the, the sort of, the sort of background as I have seen it  he never  struck me as being particularly clever or bright  it's just that he always seemed to be very well taught and academically successful and exams never seemed an undue problem, and so  he went off to  Wolverhampton Poly which he selected for, you know, all the usual reasons, reasonable place, reasonable course, a reasonable this a reasonable that,tt  erm to do science which of course all the kids want to do now  erm twentieth centu no it isn't it's a sort of nineteen eighties version of wanting to be an engine driver isn't it?
1992	They all want to be  so he went off to be a scientist and  either  he was too interested in  er  what he describes as cult television which you think
1992	but it's not  television,i i it's, it's Doctor Who and, and Prisoner and, you know  er very  interesting and very easy for enthusiasts to  direct a lot of their time and energy to  maybe I don't  maybe there was a  increased pressure to work and study  which was erm self motivated rather than being externally imposed, maybe he   maybe there was a  fundamental    lack of enthusiasm in him for  what is described as the hardware of computing, the, the, the, the, the instruments, the machines  maybe there was a less than  comprehensive understanding of what is known as the firmware, that's to say I mean  operating systems that are built into the thing to make it work, you've got to understand  the firmware because otherwise you don't understand what the machine will  think you mean and what that will do and  I would have thought that whereas superficially you can ignore the firmware, it's all in there, it understands  as you, I would have thought, grew into a  er a graduate scientist you've got to have some idea about that.
1992	Er maybe he was, I think, a little superficial in his enthusiasm for what is referred to as the software, that's to say that's the programs that you
1992	Anyhow, whatever it was, maybe  a little, as Jan says, he also had a f a bad flu bug at a bad time  anyhow he crashed out of the science course  and he announced that he was  only regarding the science course as being a stepping stone to being a teacher so the sensible thing to do would be to go on to the teacher training course at Lancashire, an education course, cos that's what he wanted to do.
1992	ask it questions, it's obviously on the telephone  because you can ask what the balance is and it will tell you, and it can't possibly know that  and Cleethorpes, when you put the card in the Cleethorpes thing, that, you know, your bank balance at Nottingham is  so it's obviously on the telephone erm and it's on the telephone to a central which holds quite a lot of information, it accesses
1992	so  why shouldn't you telephone that ?
1991	He's got three TV's, video cameras, everything.
1992	erm  you wouldn't believe the Nasha's got, it's absolutely amazing.
1992	. Apparently she's just pumping in er  like addresses and stuff into a .
1992	I worked for a, for a like a, it's a money brokers in, in London but exactly the same  stockbroking , and it was exactly like the film, you know, they had this, they had this room, like they had one of those long rooms as well you know with all the desks and and stuff but they had this one enclosed off room where all the dealers sat round this massive like circular console type table, and like they were all under thirty but like overweight, all c driving Porsches and taking coke and shit like this and right they just, they got into the office at something like six in the morning  like I'd get in at nine and I'd be, be wandering around they'd just have their trousers open, shoes off,
1992	Yeah th but I must admit it wasn't like that all hours of the day, they had, they just had massive lulls when they all just sort of sat there and playing like games and just did nothing.
1991	Carry a .
1991	They've got everything on now and it doesn't work half the time does it?
1991	Until you get a for computing a .
1991	She should do what Dinda done, I mean Dinda went to evening school for her
1991	it opens the door, it opens the door , that's why both my younger girls, I mean Diane's a different policy any way cos she wants to be a , but with the other two, who worked  interest in and  when they left college I gave them crash course in, in typing not in shorthand because they don't they don't need shorthand nowadays ,
1991	Nintendo is like a pocket .
1992	Here you are And this is a good one  diskette fire  you  you need a disk, some scissors, white or blue kitchen matches so  and clear nail polish.
1992	He's got this thing to do with his when he can get hold of it to get the
1992	The man's husband
1992	No the , in the corner
1992	when I told her about  and she come running back to me on phone the other week Glenys, Glenys, she said will you tell people if they spend twenty five pound at Tescos, I thought well that won't be me, or is it thirty, you get a thing and to take it to school to put towards
1992	And no plans for  Gerald's today?
1992	Cos we came in and Chrissy, instead of switching on the children's programmes put his on so we didn't see it.
1992	On which ?
1992	Let's get out a disk .
1992	Yeah but you did the weather all sunny  on the .
1992	I thought it was today you want on the .
1992	The had gone wrong overnight, and was heating  it up !
1992	But she said they tell you that and she said they tell you, it's on she said, but animals do go in the vans.
1992	gazumped, because nobody will take him, cos he knows absolutely nothing, about nothing else apart from butchery, it's the same with me I can't work a so I'm cramped in the way of clerical, it's no good applying for half of them because you've got to have keyboard skills and erm skills
1991	Well the reason they caught him was cos they've got  just flashed him through the as  and find out what  anyway,put it down they then turn round say oh well, you know  whatever they're
1991	And you want a vide erm  games as well don't you?
1991	Yeah to put that portable telly on  and then he's got all the space on the top for his .
1991	Sort of erm  near the place.
1991	Oh Lemmings  and that game I wanted.
1991	What near the ?
1991	Simon's  play on the .
1991	Right  cor he's got ever so nice in he?
1991	His 's ever so nice.
1991	No and just have a look at the I mean the printer that's about  half a metre long.
1991	Right  on mine I can play on this , he said we'll play Diddy Paint
1991	Well  I reckon they've got a like it.
1991	Mm  I suppose I could take my down grandma's.
1991	So she said well don't  don't put them down again I'm  doing it by the .
1991	So she said I'll do it on the and  and I'll let you know  so  we're eighty pound behind  well course we never sent one month at all!
1991	No cos it's just a  game.
1991	getting a for a hundred and ninety nine pound!
1992	Adult nappies, water resistant erotic games or novel about arti , oh god,a novel about artificial intelligence
1992	on with them.
1992	They've been bloody games in work, the chuffs.
1992	No, on .
1992	Well they've got a up in number two, and I went in tonight  they're playing chuffing Grand Prix.
1992	Mm  , yeah
1992	the program
1992	work out and you can put all the information in to the
1992	, disks
1992	disks yeah
1992	and that and er he left it and he just carried on talking about this that and the other, and he says right I'm going and he went and he left the game, he'd brought it down for the kids, he didn't say, you know
1992	had their nicked
1991	Tell you what you can have a pair for Christmas instead of a .
1991	on the most of the time.
1991	Oh that's where you should go for your , look.
1991	It's not a .
1991	Their .
1991	Even I can put a  in like those
1991	in a like this so that
1991	this bookline outlines these    I have done some  down in Wales, studies  I have done most work well, I
1991	studies  Paul
1992	in the , on the erm telly
1992	What he's got?
1992	what they use up the school a proper , the screens and printouts and mouses and
1992	Right, we'll scan there and I want to have a look at the in there as well
1992	so erm, I mean it's all down to Gary, I mean if he wants his new , I said to him I said you're better off getting you know extra three or four grand on the mortgage
1992	and then he can get the he wants without moaning and then can get everything done in the bedroom without worrying about it
1992	which is why I said to him that yeah he can have a new , he can get what he, you know what he wants as long as I get my bedroom done
1992	the kids spilt milk on this and I didn't realize and it all dried, stuck all the controls  you know what Tony's like, you know, can't you keep the kids away from the
1992	I know how a basic works  I think.
1992	I'd like to see that silly   next to us on the going into an exam and the machine won't work for her properly.
1992	Should have it  should have separate room for the and for the typewriters  and for the Y T S students.
1992	Then you had  ee, you had, the white classrooms  then you had  er, a class with all yo with your compu
1992	.
1992	a classroom for your typewriters
1992	And they  like  the teacher  he wo he se he taught us  from the very beginning  step by step, or even how to plu plu push the plug in.
1992	It's gonna go down on .
1992	he said no if you want one, I'll get one and then he said Julie's work with Obart, works with the and works for Obart, like all the machines or something, when he comes in I said have you bought my hoover?
1992	So who, is it a that listens to it?
1992	Yeah, they put it all in a and then all the words are analyzed  and from the different accents and all that sort of, pronunciation.
1992	It'll just be analyzed in the .
1992	I don't know, maybe they erm  a , they'll listen to the tapes  and they probably sample some of the words into a to build up a database    of words that probably  like you said, oh he's getting a lot of jip from his boss, you know, is probably not in the dictionary  but if a lot of people said that word then they would.
1992	all the rest join in with Stuart, and Indipau says oh take no notice Geoff, don't let them get you down, but its only Indipau that's not, all the girls they all join in, bloody Colin who, he borrowed his that time, remember?
1992	its the same in all jobs, look at the banks how they've had to cut down on staff, have just totally took over, I mean every, every area of work more or less its been done away with by
1992	eventually it'll get more and more wise, its the same in the motor trade or any trade it all, if the machine goes wrong all they'll have is a pack, just pull the pack out, put a new pack in and put it back
1992	.
1992	Get the off!
1992	God there was like a ra , I was on the today  and there was like weeee really  ringing sort of noise  erm, I thought it was just  you know, when you're ears ring?
1992	Must of been on one of the other and er  it went on for ages and it was  you know it's  was irritating more than anything!
1992	And then  erm they all get punched into the, Rob's got a special programme thing, you punch them all in  er  and then it does a ma a matching thing.
1992	Hello Scooby's phone  on the
1992	no, no, no, no he's not over there, I mean put it back through to her's, he's on the
1991	and  he's having a punch up with his brother  and he keeps letting his brother hit him  he's got this holographic image he, who accompanies him with this fucking , and working out what's going on  why they're there sort of thing  cos he goes back in  into to different times to  to help  these people out
1991	cos that really was flying you know, that was, no, it was none of this fucking press a button and let the, just a do it, you're a technician, you're a pilot now, but this fucking Eddy, Eddy the , yeah real, there's, there's quite a few reputable
1991	they built, they built a well beaten aircraft and they haven't got half the technical advantages that the West has and their has still, practically just got out of the  stage.
1991	but every front line regiment in the Germ , in Germany had, they were the first tank regiment to get completed with er, er, optic sights and stuff
1991	but we had the  system first built
1991	the only battleship I know about is the girl friend   go away for about three months at a time and you'd say of where's Norman, oh he's er working and then we all knew he's working for a  he'd put them in the systems right the way throughout the ships
1991	This chair goes up and down when you sit on it  is that free?
1991	I've left my programme going, God knows what it's gonna do  I've only got  half an hour to finish it!
1991	No I think they went out  the side door, cos they were in the room with us   and they sat there  Louise goes, what's going on ?
1991	And they sat there on the and the woman said right everybody out, she's an old battleaxe!
1991	No I don't wanna be sitting messing around with freezing my bum off!
1992	He got the paper that says  says nothing about at twenty percent off whole stock  Good grief!
1992	I went round to Kelly's house and I played a there  and they could bring
1992	More !
1992	We haven't had the on for ages have we?
1992	It's only a anyway!
1992	Now switch the on.
1992	If you're not gonna sit straight then hold on to the !
1992	doesn't like and he doesn't like
1992	's the  finest example of that  produced
1992	Secretarial work, you know that sort of thing, is run up on
1992	Anything down er for these here ?
1992	It's a mini .
1992	But er, they had quite a few there, and I said to Ray find out how much the are.
1992	two thousand pounds for a so
1992	Our own 's going.
1992	Yes, well that's all very well when they know ho , well it's like those erm  things isn't it?
1992	Now  if it's only a fuse like mine  I'll get him one  and we'll be able to get  the back down cos er  the  like right?
1992	Well  do you know  what brought, brought it up about games?
1992	I got another tape for the .
1992	I remember my first .
1992	.
1992	Did you ask the wee boy where he got the game?
1991	bother I've ever had with him, and he goes on to it and away he goes and he'll come back in the house  and he'll go up the stairs  to the , and that's his life.
1991	He sits up the stairs and either plays the or draws these men or plays with these wee men all over the place, so
1992	I thought a
1992	No, but I know that you're dying to have a , and if money was no object, then we probably wouldn't hesitate in lending it to you, but really and truly at this moment things are  tight and we can't afford to commit ourselves with things  unless it's absolutely necessary.
1992	but he sort of pooh-poohed it and sort of said well you know, we're getting a bit to old for all this modern sophistication of and so on, well I said well quite frankly I am not totally in agreement with you, because as you probably know Clyde  was looking into a program which will could alleviate a lot
1992	all things in mind that are possible on er, on er, on er , and he said that he hadn't much time to think about it and said well look, maybe over Easter
1992	Oh that's excellent because er I said, he said oh I don't want to be lugged with a big sort of thing and so on, so I said well you might, you might be able to get
1992	Yes that, that's certainly something which I know applications
1992	Just cos I play on my and you don't
1992	Well he was a programmer  so he designed his programme  to to shorten the ac the system, like, you know  and these have got together and now they're in business.
1992	She reckons she's gonna teach me .
1992	What the ?
1992	Er, I think it's the, the lead  you know, that goes from the
1992	It'll be  be much more straightforward when they've got the whole thing on the but  at the moment it's a transitional phase.
1992	The man on the .
1992	Well tha well  oh well that's alright, it was only that it'd be  I thought you said there was a place for your name and address that hadn't been filled in by the so you filled it in?
1992	That's right, so I filled it in because that's what you do if you get stuck on Keele you fill in the bits that the hasn't
1992	Like .
1992	gone upstairs to play on the so er
0000	He was made, he was made redundant two years ago, head of in a bank.
0000	And the women went oh eh unlucky that was seven numbers, Shaney said to her it weren't that was six numbers, and they got  and that and got the print out and all that , and then it was six numbers.
1992	Can we go on the today?
1992	D, otherwise we're not gonna have time to go on the
1992	Right well we'll just do this then you can have a go on the .
1992	Well I've got, I pu put a program on, I've got a and I
1992	put a program on the for maths
1992	What is that then?
1992	But he has,we we've only got, my husband's got a at work, we just got one of the Segas, the master systems you know that you you got th the games that you put in those  but he wants to get another one next year  but that's a good idea something like that!
1991	Write in the Margaret all systems so we can all read it.
1991	a in front of them and being able to look at it and do what you're saying?
1991	well no, because what you can do know is you can go to somebody who will sit down with a mini and that's what you need, a mini and will sit down and will look at a job and will say right, if you take this job, it can also claim Family Credit of so much, and, and they actually do a, a sort of alternative benefit calculation, and what they do is they look at, if you take this job and take all the other things into account, will you be better off?
1991	Erm  the deduction will only made, be made  if a suspension is held on our .
1992	They say it's anonymous, they just log it on and it's just, to show people in the future what we spoke like in the nineties
1992	games innit?
1994	So everything's there, printing presses repro separation houses, sheet film, set up and Apple Macs and everything is there, it's actually a very impressive set up erm, the Queen Margaret's course, I'm slightly dubious about I once had a colleague I'm going back a decade who had been employed on the basis of doing the communications course at Queen Margaret I think, and it turned out that it wasn't communications as we understood it, it wasn't our sort of communications P R newspapers and things like that, it was communications on a much broader, broader front so  it didn't actually fit in to the world of P R and what happened was I then had to sit down and train this woman from scratch and get rid of a lot of the preconceived notions that she had come in with she had brought from Queen Margaret's College.
1994	you to experiment with different assumptions on your own plan, it's on the , so if you come up with a silly plan, you can even put your five year plan in there, and say well, this is where I want to be,and play about, and see what I've really gotta be doing.
1994	So what I'm saying is here is, again  your ratios and anything on the , it will tell you how many appointments you need to make just from your ratios.
1994	None at all, I mean he he when he saw John Cleese on that erm , said what's that?
1994	moving off the shelves and into the shop and, what we would do was erm  deli people now do er, stock an order by and, and people like Sainsburys were doing that in the seventies, you know, and they would actually work over  er work on erm  data erm, from their and order er erm  you know, okay, they'd be an event at the weekend or something and they'd, they'd of, increase it or something, but they would technically work out exactly what the throughput of certain items were.
1994	yes they have the software.
1994	My other half ordered from a catalogue disc drives to assemble compu , er a home and he was looking very carefully cos parts can be quite expensive and he was looking at national catalogue for the best prices.
1994	that's why, that's so that we can give the shop his control of supply  which actually like my da , you're saying if it was a disc supplier he could have next day delivery to him and then next day delivery to my man.
1994	What we can actually do is suggest to the C, the C D or the shop  your manufacturer can send directly to Peter  via us, I then say  via us.
1994	Peter rang this
1994	Erm you may have to um, thinking about the capabilities of that there, you may have to um er split it up into er into say two sets of questions.
1994	But the one on the in the public access machines over th in the main building they'll be able to do more because it's a more powerful it's based in.
1992	And may I suggest that we add to  the list, on the type it into this particular programme be , it's called arts list
1993	Erm the, not sure, the
1993	No I mean, that's right, a I mean
1993	on your okay.
1993	And oh we'll ask your dad what sort of he's got.
1993	Hello Claire says she's been doing pie charts on your .
1993	But  very good sort of cheap way into .
1993	Erm and you could start making up your own and playing with them on the .
1993	and you'll you know it does it itself you just, you, with the you just say well I had four pounds and I spent a pound on that and two pound on this thirty pence on that and it goes pow does it by magic.
1993	In fact as soon as I walked in I wasn't allowed to go to my desk until I promised her I would get the out
1993	Erm use of er how, so al help you filling in job search, so these
1993	Six months ago six major E C Health and Safety Directives came into effect covering workplace safety, machinery, protective equipment, manual handling, work with and word processors, they've built on a framework directive giving workers new rights to consultation and the right to stop the job and the union has been watching the government and the H S E and me as well, in their attempts to water down the requirements of these directives and we might well lodge a formal complaint with Brussels that could land the Tories in Europe's Court of Justice.
1993	More importantly from our point of view, she does not operate a press or a lathe, nor a welding machine or check-out till, nor a typewriter or , or an industrial sewing machine.
1993	That membership consolidation is important, but with check-off and other payment methods and the issue of printed cards valid for two years, we feel that there are alternatives and better methods to investigate.
1994	When we run into trouble is say, when we're buying software or some hardware, hardware for instance, when we have no sub-system operating there.
1994	So, how it deals with the payroll is absolutely nothing to do with B S 5750, how it erm, deals with the bank is nothing to do with B S 5750, its systems or anything.
1994	No, he's got some very strong views on the issues to do with literacy training and requirements and possibly a way of managing that together with all the other things .
1994	and then through a friend who was working at , got a job; most of my work actually involves working with , it's only now and again I actually get to go away and actually do some recording, which I
1994	We're actually get , sending him some software out on the so he can start playing and start understanding what the does.
1994	But what's good now, is actually you can go onto a , and the will all say, also say, whoa, that's a bit unrealistic, that doesn't marry with that, that doesn't match that, no, alter your plan accordingly.
1994	Any policy delivery visits, number of referrals, total daily approaches at the top, and then what actually happens is, is you complete this, and every, this branch what they do, the people that do it, every Monday morning, they all come in here and have training sessions, and then there's around the branch.
1994	They actually just feed this information, it takes about three minutes on average to input the data off this into the , and it goes straight into the mainframe .
1994	And it goes into the .
1994	Your manager might say, well to earn X amount from the branch statistics and company statistics you actually need to, but you'll actually get this information off the , so I'm a  for telling you that.
1994	But immediately monitoring is coming into play here, if I was your manager, but the will do this by the way, but your manager will spot that and say, have you made those fifty calls.
1994	But actually, just look, turning the page, it tells you activity and production, right, how many days worked this year, forty days, how many weeks, eight days, and all the rest, and then if you see we can get  this is based on your data, that you're feeding into the every week, and there's absolutely no purpose in putting false data in.
1994	The will say, this ain't right, and come out and tell us.
1994	So don't lie, if you're having a bad month, or you're having a bad week or you haven't had any sales, put it in the , because that's going to be identified, it comes up on here, so that your manager can help you.
1994	On the very sure, this is already in the system this, and already being used, we are just, it won't be of any benefit unti , until you actually start working on true data.
1993	So you'll get a big erm warehouse erm which may be typically erm controlled, retrieval systems, storage, inventory, stock control and all the rest of it which will employ a certain number of people.
1993	And that is a relatively new phenomenon and the type of warehouse which historically we all knew which was men in brown coats driving forklift trucks is not what it's about, it's about er pretty sophisticated labour erm dealing with erm systems and electronic retrieval systems and often working in shifts on twenty four hour basis.
1993	No goals as yet in the other game in group A  against Charlton although as I warned you earlier, I don't think we'll have that score for you tonight because it is being played in Italy and er our chances of getting that score through the er here are remote to put it mildly.
1992	Now yes this is very very welcome indeed, but I do see it Mr Chairman in the experience of the past and that really with the hard work that you both have put in as a piece of paper it is now in the as far as I can see and I think there is a term now within agriculture and I will give you an example of this and I think it now, it may apply I think to our road system particular particularly in the north, north Suffolk, yeah I think the term is set-aside, and I hope that some time central government will acknowledge that within this eastern region certainly the Lowestoft area and Waking area we have very great problems, because these pieces of jigsaw do not come into the full picture, they're put in place now and then and later and in apparent it is giving us a very great problem certainly within the last
1989	He doesn't see us as a part of a crowd, he doesn't see us as  a number on a , he doesn't see us as numbers on a bank account, or in some other organizational er er er  set up or whatever it is, he doesn't just see us as that  he sees us as individuals.
0000	Erm, could you wait for him here,erm, who are you working with on ?
0000	can't go wrong is that  the th the thing in you put in the won't go off  won't go off and won't be on the computing see what I'm saying?
0000	This is a pretty pathetic one basically and it can't hold very much information  programme and so once it's had five records fed into it's memory it's full up which is pretty pathetic given the size of each record.
0000	This is my file and if I look up er, in a way this is a collection of files, isn't it? but one file I've got is called ten C S, studies, and each record is headed with your name and as well as your name I keep a record of your form or tutor group.
0000	That's called ten studies file.
1993	Oi, would you come to the service block with me?
0000	I put going down to the English Centre and using the
0000	and he goes what are you using the quiet, what are you using the erm for in your quiet periods?
0000	I said well I'm not very good on and I've got loads of coursework so I thought if I go down there and type out different pieces of work it would get me familiarized with them
1992	and then they people, and it, both the firms have gone bust, and each one was suing from the other for, er, insurance
1992	the  the chap at the  at the place died
1992	Oh it's gone into that now
1992	you're, you're just a number on a damn but they crack on
1992	I give you a good example of that, erm, well not how easy it is, not on that, but how easy it is to get money without having the money, okay, Tony wants that, the
1992	Something like that, trying to remember now what it was, sixteen hundred, sixteen hundred that was it and it says your credit limit is sixteen, sixteen, you could spend up to sixteen hundred pounds, whether you got it or not you can spend it, so we said if we're gonna get this because you get these Air Miles out of it, you know, every ten pounds you get an Air Mile, well if he's getting a over a thousand pounds you know with all the paraphernalia that goes with it, well that's a lot of Air Miles there, well we said we'll get it through Access, but there isn't, our credit limit on Access isn't enough to pay for the , sixteen hundred it's more than sixteen hundred, in, in the long, once he's got his printer and God knows what you know, so I phoned them up and he said erm is it possible to adjust the limit upwards?
1992	paper, do it,
1992	Do it with the program, it's a lot easier, use erm
1992	biscuits
1992	He wants  he'll send us a er  a rough erm  sponsorship form cos I said we could do it on the you know, the
1992	for Tony.
1992	Do that one, bit worried about that in the back you know
0000	be any point, huh, if they, cos the thing is if you go to all those lectures and then, because you're allowed to go to an employer of what you wanna be, you see they talk to you about it and they, and then you go on the
0000	and you work on the what you're gonna be and then it'll be silly if they brought you to a nursery afterwards  if you  wanted to be
0000	oh, she's been playing with ?
1993	I know I've got studies
1993	actually I've got studies and then R A.
1993	I can't because of this fucking new system innit.
1993	Too much games.
1993	two sort of small  and then like you show these two kids playing a game going whee
1993	and then it homes in on one of the men right and it goes sort of whee one hour later whee  whee bom bom bom and the other one goes one hour later right and the just explodes and it just goes boom
1992	Oh he says, er where it all get processed you know, your card and that gets made.
0000	You know in ?
1992	Well you'll soon be whizz kids eh?
0000	int it?
0000	Love .
0000	Co the 's on your brain.
0000	Er, what does he know about ?
0000	She said they've got to do that.
0000	for your ?
0000	I play it on my brother's .
0000	Can I break your ?
0000	You should've come and knocked for me cos you could've come in and played and everything.
0000	and he was playing with me and I meant to come up to you.
0000	Cos usu when they go away, cos they're not going away this weekend, but when they go away you should come down cos the flat's quiet and I ain't got nothing to do, sit and play my .
0000	Ne, na, ne, na
1992	Ah well we shan't  any more she's doing art.
1993	No, it's that he, he goes, if I had the other one he could have done it there and then on the .
0000	But with a right  scan it and i if  take  erm  picked a note or whatever you wanna do to it  you've done it.
0000	So don't use .
1993	So that we have got a disk which we can put into the machines down there in the room, a whole lot of transcriptions that they've already made.
1993	Erm, when I really learnt to use this myself, in the room   go along there for, half an hour one Friday, and have a look at it, because you might, in your second assignment possibly like to, to use this data in some way.
1993	So you can get these conversations up on screen, all of them, and you can pick them out .
1993	Right, well, this is the interesting thing, in a way, that bring, you might, very well like to go and play with them in the room.
1993	You type it on your , erm, say er, or erm, or other hesitation markers, that you will predict will mark hesitation, and on your scr you type this on the keyboard, and on your screen, you will get a whole list of  places where this is used with the beginning bit of the sentence, and the end bit of the sentence, and all the ers will be listed down the middle of the screen, with the line numbers, here, so you can check back to where it comes from.
1993	It took him twenty five minutes on, on his ,
0000	But can't you use the modulator from the other ?
0000	No, that is from the but he gave it to me because he uses the monitor.
0000	And he bought a new
0000	So why is the boy selling the without a modulator?
0000	She just stays in and working and the whole family  come round to her house  room
0000	I thought a
0000	No, but I know that you're dying to have a , and if money was no object, then we probably wouldn't hesitate in lending it to you, but really and truly at this moment things are  tight and we can't afford to commit ourselves with things  unless it's absolutely necessary.
0000	What kind of does he want?
0000	He wants an expensive
0000	No he wants a decent .
0000	Well why doesn't she buy him a ?
0000	Well why can't his father pay for a ?
0000	This is the last in our series of programmes about .
0000	During the last couple of months we've talked about every possible aspect and application; in science, in industry, in commerce and at a home; both of and of microprocessors.
0000	When we were walking over here this morning, I was suggesting to you that in fact , really, were numeric devices — they did arithmetic _ and I'm not sure you actually agreed with me.
0000	Well I felt that although, obviously, do do arithmetic and they do it very quickly, to me probably the more important aspects are the fact that one has a visual display on the screen which can convey information without numbers in a more rapid way to most people.
0000	And do you think that's really going to be an application, as it were, that will appeal more to the lay person rather than person that uses a for business or professionally one way or another?
0000	I think both in the lay person, as you say, it will be more immediately obvious what a 's doing if you have a visual display, but even in the scientific approaches then I think the ability to present graphical information rapidly and change erm the function that you're looking at is also very important and, for instance in the teaching that we do here, then one of the things that we're very keen on is using computes to show graphically sort of functions that you meet in mathematics and physics.
0000	What about the lay person, the man or woman in the street or in the home, will they actually use in a graphical sense?
0000	I think the problem here is that others, obviously banks and other industries, will be using and there will be a tendency then for people, when things go wrong or when they don't understand, to become further removed from the technology.
0000	There will be a tendency, when everything comes from the , you hear it already, ‘oh it was the ’, and that, I think, we want to try to change as quickly as possible.
0000	It's always the programmer — it's very, very seldom the — and if I could just go on for a minute, I feel it's essential that young children, particularly in the primary schools, get used to using hardware and programing, so that they will see the as part of their normal lives, like reading and writing and anything else they use.
0000	I remember a very difficult erm problem I had when I erm was ordering some goods from a mail order firm and I kept on getting letters back after  replies to mine, from the , and these letters were totally unconnected with my letter and I found this very very frustrating.
0000	I mean isn't it really  using a is merely a facilitator, like using a car is a simple way of transport, and therefore whether or not it facilitates is nothing to do with the system itself, it's to do with the way in which it's used.
0000	I mean we may not like heavy lorries thundering along, whereas we do like ambulances, and use is precisely the same.
0000	I mean the ability to use is with us, how we use them is really up to us.
0000	and improvements in communication erm can reduce the requirements for transport.
0000	There is nothing more annoying than a system that works beautifully, say, in a library, and then one goes in at nine thirty in the morning and you can't get books out because the power has gone off, and if we are sure to go on having a society with industrial disputes, we want a system that is not capable of being completely ruined by one small section of workers deciding not to work on a particular day, and so I think while we're putting them in, while we want to put them in in a way which that is compatible, we also need to think of having a kind of fail-safe system, particularly in the sort of more serious applications such as medicine and transport and so on, whereby we can't be held to ransom by very a small group of people, or indeed by just some technical fault, such as a power failure or something of this kind.
0000	Do you think women are at a disadvantage so far as this age is concerned?
0000	Is it a sexist thing, a ?
0000	First, I shall be continuing our series on , and we'll be dealing with microprocessors.
0000	First then, continuing our series of programmes on applications of , today we're going to look at the so-called microprocessor, and to help me do this I have Doctor Fred Halsall and Doctor Paul Lister, who are engineers and specialists in this particular area.
0000	It has lots of similar properties to a larger , in so much that it has a similar, what is referred to as a central processing unit, and in some instances similar peripheral devices, but if one can imagine that for certain applications where these have been collectively gathered together in erm the ultimate setting on a single integrated circuit, then one has a microcomputer, comprised of a microprocessor, some memory and some appropriate interfacing devices to the outside world.
0000	Is it actually a that does things, as opposed to a that you do things to?
0000	I suppose, strictly speaking, the term is a truncation of a micro-electronic central processing unit, where the central processing unit is the heart of a , the thing that crunches the numbers and so on.
0000	Now we have microprocessor single integrated circuit processing units that are comparable with traditional mainframe in their power, but a microprocessor needs memory circuits and I O circuits to form a complete .
0000	To add to the confusion, perhaps, really, I think it's important to distinguish between single chip microcomputers and the sort of microcomputers that erm people imagine have keyboards and screens and things, personal , which are often called microcomputers and quite rightly.
0000	They are a rather different animal, as far as the sorts of applications are concerned, from single chip microcomputers — a single integrated circuit that has all the features, including the processor, of a that can be made very cheaply and embodied particularly in things like low cost domestic goods.
0000	Yes, I'm glad you mentioned that because all sorts of modern washing machines, for example, claim to have their own built-in .
0000	Is there really a little in such a device?
0000	erm certainly numerically controlled machine tools, they've been with us for a number of years now and there's no doubt about it that micro-electronics is having an influence, or advances in micro-electronics are having a way in which they are implemented, but I feel applications of that type it requires quite a large amount of flexibility in being able to program it to set up one machine, program it differently to set up another machine, say, or to produce one component and another component and so on, so that I think there one is thinking and looking at a more sophisticated type of than, say, a simple microcomputer that we've been talking about earlier.
0000	Next week I shall be looking at applications of
0000	Now you can't possibly test a medicine on ten thousand people before you start to sell it, so that sort of risk, as rare a risk as that, will only be picked up when the medicine has actually been in use and on the market and been properly prescribed for some years, and what we are doing now, and what is particularly interesting, is to start to use to pick up these adverse reactions so that we know much more quickly in future if a medicine is doing any harm and we can either stop prescribing it for the people who are going to suffer from it, and that's the most likely thing, or else take it off the market altogether if it's  if we don't  if we can't pick out the people who might be at risk.
0000	Now one of the problems is that doctors are rather reluctant to do that because it's very difficult for them to be sure that a particular headache or a particular skin rash has been caused by one of the medicines which the patient was taking, so the doctors are not very good at filling in the yellow cards and these are not a very good way of reporting adverse reactions, and to get over that we are starting now to use .
0000	We're giving two and a half thousand doctors on their desk, where they can tap in to the anything which happens to the patient which they suspect might be related to the medicine and also put in to the , of course, the medicines which the patient is taking, so that these records, covering about five million patients altogether, will be all centrally brought together in order to give very early warning of any harm which medicines are doing, so that's a very important development.
0000	are used in all walks of life, although so far in our series of programmes we've largely been looking at scientific applications.
0000	Today, however, we're going to examine quite a different area — how can help librarians to make better use of their stock.
0000	Peter, how useful have you found the in our library?
0000	Well first of all I suppose one should say that we don't just use one , we, like lots of other libraries, have got access to a large number of , and indeed you'll find these being used elsewhere for the same sort of way.
0000	That's very effective if you're dealing with factual information which is changing fairly rapidly, and I think we'll see quite a growth of that in the next few years, but libraries aren't just stores of factual information; they store a large number of books and articles and they need access to that too, and probably the most typical external use of a in libraries and in a university library, academic library, these days is to access the huge stores of information on scientific publishing.
0000	There's one gigantic in California, which has got access to a hundred databases there called the stores of information, compiled mainly by the publishers of journals.
0000	In both Prestel and those sorts of things as you use the system you pay, and you pay for the telecommunications costs, you pay for the costs, and you pay for the information that you receive.
0000	However, my own interest, perhaps, is more in what a library, a typical library not just a university library, can do with its own , and most of our  most of our readers, most of the people who use libraries expect to find books in those libraries and expect to find them when they want them, and our interests have been angled very much towards improving that sort of service.
0000	So there's a sense in which you use a for all sorts of different purposes.
0000	You use the when books are issued, for example?
0000	Yes, I'm sure most people by now are quite familiar with the use of in this way.
0000	That's an interesting problem, the way we communicate erm a is not the way we necessarily think of it.
0000	We all know how to use pens — we were taught how to use a pen in primary school — but the can't read our writing yet, so we use something which looks like a pen, but it's reading something which doesn't look like letter of the alphabet and words, but which it can understand and understand very quickly and very accurately indeed.
0000	And presumably the advantage of using a for that is much greater than the mere saving of time in a library and taking out a card and putting it in a wallet or erm a card folder or something like that, because you can retain in your a lot of information about what books are in the library and what books are out with lenders and so on.
0000	That information is only part of the very large store of information that we need to retain in our own local , which contains records about erm it's about a hundred and fifty thousand of our four hundred and fifty thousand different books at this moment.
0000	We've chosen to go it alone, but the net result is the same, that the store of information includes information on the authors and the titles of the books and, of course, now includes information on the books that are being borrowed, who's got them, when they're coming back, how many other copies we've got, whether we've got copies on order and all of that, all in one central store of information, a central store which can be shared by everyone using the library.
0000	Now the can collect this sort of information as people borrow the books, as a sort of by-product, if you like.
0000	The book is lent, it needs to be know when it's gone out, when it's due back, but the clock up one — that bit of information adds to other bits of information, all within the central store.
0000	We have to put a shelf mark on the books so that we can shelve the book, but that tells us quite a lot about the subject, and if you start putting those three things together the librarian, as manager of his library, can start to put all this information together — in fact, the digests it for him — to give him an overview of how effective his operation is, when he should be buying extra copies, when perhaps he should be thinking of not buying quite so much, or being a little more selective.
0000	About eighty per cent of the users are students and they've normally been told to read this, or read that, or read the other, and if they now use one of our terminals, which has got a little video screen on the top and a little keyboard, they can look up the books, they can look them up by title, by the title of the book as well as by the traditional author approach, and when they've found it the tells them how many copies are in the library, or whether they're all on loan.
0000	The publisher, traditionally, needs to sell at least a thousand copies of that to be worth even advertising it, but this means that you can print an extra copy whenever you want and this then implies perhaps and even larger and larger growth and more and more specialised information, which only can manage, and one hesitates to work out where the end of all this is.
0000	Oh, yes, indeed, a close friend of mine has been working on the history of a very large British company and he's just seen the proofs produced from the printers from the typescript which was typed in his own office, and apart from the fact that their can change the typefaces and improve the whole thing, the work has not had to be re-keyboarded, as they would say, re-typed in at all.
0000	It's part of the this way in which the can turn information over and over again for a different need.
0000	I saw in publishing a very nice example of that, not the word processing, but at John Wylies, who are a very big scientific publishers in Chichester, where they had a system which the editors — he's the person who deals with the author, puts the book together — set about ordering the book; the orders and that information went into the , when the thing was printed it went into the warehouse and the then organised the storage of all of these things in the warehouse.
0000	Orders came in, and that helped the warehouse people unpack the boxes and despatch them; the information got fed back to the editor to tell him what the sales were, and it was a continuous process and all of the people tended to see the as working very much for them, rather than for the other department next door.
0000	And presumably if you wanted to revise a book at all, and you had the book on your floppy disk or in your in some for, you could again use your word processor to bring it up to date in a revised version.
0000	Well that's  that is  I think everyone who's ever worked on , editing or word processors, has been very fascinated by the change of attitude that they've had, that somehow it isn't finished.
0000	And we're seeing a situation in which are now moving out of the sort of Delphic Oracle there where they were behind glass doors and you could go and look at them and there were huge whirring wheels and whatnot.
0000	What that means is that there's a whole new way of thinking about what sorts of tasks can people actually use to do so the offices of the future may well have no typewriters, but just micro tied into an information system, and that presents, I think, great problems for people.
0000	Yes, I think people think of as being devices that calculate things essentially.
0000	Certainly not, and I think that that's one of the things that causes people to be  to switch off when you mention and think ‘oh, I can't understand that’ because their experience at school perhaps was that they couldn't understand mathematics anyway.
0000	The important thing to recognize, really, is that anyone can program a , and I do mean program it.
0000	erm we have developed over in the university, in the arts area especially, for arts undergraduates who don't have mathematical or scientific training, ways of giving them erm training in programming, and they come out really both full of fun about it and with a lot more confidence than they could possibly have imagined they would have when they began.
0000	So you don't need a degree in mathematics to run a ?
0000	I mean you're talking about having in the offices and perhaps in the home, now this must have great impact on the future education needs of people who are going to use these devices, surely?
0000	One of the things that we need to be clear about is that erm are not unlike us.
0000	For example, the basic idea, one might say, is that follow procedures.
0000	Now in fact what that means for me is that actually we're all programmers — we always have been — but we haven't been used to explaining it in quite the way that need us to explain it, and of course that goes back to this question of understanding English that we were talking about last time.
0000	Yes, I think that the crucial thing that's emerging, especially from the area of artificial intelligence, is that we're beginning to understand that what the name of the game is getting people to express their intentions, and for a long time we've been, as it were, stuck in languages that don't really help you to do that and we're really beginning to understand now that erm what people are doing when they program indeed, I mean as it were the ace programmers, are expressing their intention for whatever's to be done in the task the 's to perform clearly.
0000	I know that they do have science courses at both O level and A level, do you think these will be the basis of the future courses, or are we looking for an entirely new development, something quite new and quite different, that stands as a subject in his own right?
0000	I remember a colleague of mine, who actually wasn't erm terribly enamoured of , who had a book called ‘Thinking Goes to School’ I think.
0000	I think that the presents exactly that challenge and amongst the sorts of things I'm thinking of is that erm it's one thing to play with a toy, a game of some sort — we've all seen them in the bar and elsewhere — it's another thing entirely to devise your own game, to program your own rules in and then to bring your friend along and have them challenge it.
0000	Twelve year olds were doing that kind of task on a .
0000	We think of the spoken language, the written language, what in practice do you mean by ‘language’, is it an instruction you type on a keyboard, or what in terms of a ?
0000	At the moment erm the way that we use is, of course, to use a keyboard, but I was talking to some people today who've now developed and you can buy it, erm a system on which you can write on what you want to say, so that as long as you print fairly clearly you don't have to learn any new typing skills.
0000	One of the things I again would like to see in schools is that sort of approach, which brings out what language is really about, and I think that that's an exciting and possibly quite unexpected outcome of bringing into schools, but it will require that we don't simply think of it as being ‘oh, let's have a micro in the science lab’; it is going to be as the government seems to recognise, a step involving curriculum design, involving helping teachers _ really, really helping them in a strongly supportive way — to do something which is, I would say, revolutionary.
0000	I'm thinking actually of here in the university itself, we've got three different groups in those areas that are now collaborating, and I think we've got a good chance of _ especially in the area of schools curricula — but also in the area, I think, of helping business people, and I'm thinking now of senior management, who might be your and my age, Brian, for whom didn't exist when we went through university or college, erm who've probably more or less given up any hope of understanding it and understanding the boffins who have taken over — almost taken over the company at times, one suspects.
0000	What I'd like to do is to help them to see that they don't need to give up on the , that they can actually be the master of it, although of course I don't  I'm not suggesting that they become programmers — that would be to abdicate their function in another way — but certainly they can understand it, and I think of course it keeps coming back to this issue over and over again, an issue about education.
0000	What we've got is a tremendous gap in what people need to know in society, in all areas of society, to handle this revolution.
0000	So a big issue about whether  how well we're placed with regard to America and Japan and so on is how well placed are we to bring about this educational step, and I think we're probably about as well placed as anybody else, certainly we haven't made some of the mistakes that other people have made, we haven't had a very big investment in what's often called assisted instruction, which I think is rather limited.
0000	I think it's much more important that we instruct the and not have the instruct us.
0000	If we can learn to be programmers _ indeed we already are — but if we can learn to instruct the , then we'll retain our dignity and our responsibility in matters rather than really abdicating it in ways that I don't myself favour.
0000	So what you're really saying is that the of the kind you're describing are for the ordinary person.
0000	They're for the child in school; they're for the housewife; they're for the businessman of the future, and an ordinary competent businessman has the capability and the possibility of actually learning how these devices work and using them, rather than just leaving it to the boffin, the scientist, the expert.
0000	That's right, and until he does that, until he does, as it were, grasp the mettle and begin to express his purposes, his procedures, directly to the , he will always be at the risk that what gets expressed is not what he quite wanted, just a little bit different, he and he alone, is the person who knows what the company purposes are.
0000	Next week I shall be talking with Peter Stone about how are
0000	The whole of the microchip industry for making is based on the chemistry of silicon.
0000	There are advances, as we've already talked about, in the microelectronics industry, because as become smaller and smaller, then they approach molecular dimensions and gain the realm of molecular reactions is the realm of chemistry, so physics and chemistry there intertwine absolutely inescapably.
0000	In East Sussex two or three years ago there was probably only one or two primary schools, say, with a microcomputer, and most secondary schools probably had one Commodore Pet .
0000	I can understand using microcomputers in secondary schools, that makes a certain amount of sense, but is there any sense in using in primary schools?
0000	Firstly, when one thinks about using in schools, one tends to think of technology, and you think of people with white coats and dials and sort of science and technology and so forth, whereas I think in schools the big interest is in using a microcomputer as a teaching aid and as a support to other services and other ways of doing things, so it is just as relevant in a primary school as a secondary school.
0000	You see I think there's a confusion between teaching science and studies and learning about and using micros in education.
0000	Teaching about is important, both technically and from the role they're going to have in the children's lives, but as I have said before the main interest, from an educational point of view, is using it as one would use a video tape or an overhead projector or a blackboard and a piece of chalk.
0000	Perhaps only three or four keys on the typewriter keyboard that the will have need to be pressed at all, and if a child presses the wrong one it doesn't all stop and funny, you know, impersonal messages come up on the screen saying he's done something wrong, it just ignores them and waits for one of the correct responses.
0000	So, providing you say yes there will be occasions when the machine can take over some sort of part of the teacher's role, then fair enough, yes, but I think one of the interesting ways in which are used at the present time, particularly again in the primary school, is as orchestrators of group work.
0000	You have three or four children sitting round the discussing, arguing, planning, working with the machine, and the machine is, as I say, co-ordinating their activities.
0000	This year we've restricted it to primary, partly because we felt that's where the enthusiasm was, and partly, if people won't mind me saying so, to keep out the science specialists — we felt that, you know, we didn't want a club for boffins or for the experts, we wanted a club  and we felt that if we started at the primary end, where there wasn't a lot of expertise, we would probably be of more use.
0000	This is the first of a series of programmes in which we're going to look at the and its impact on our lives.
0000	I suppose that we each of us are born with our own primitive : two hands and ten fingers.
0000	Of course when we think and talk about , we generally have in mind something much more formal and more scientific than our own hands.
0000	So if are really that ordinary and familiar, what's so special about them?
0000	And since complicated situations or statements can very easily be broken down into a set of simple statements, this in effect means that can store complex pieces of information too.
0000	Secondly, can do sums and manipulations with this information very rapidly.
0000	In a recent B B C 2 programme on computing, the presenter commented on the huge capacity of such as those used by the Meteorological Office to predict the weather.
0000	The third feature of the modern is that it is now much more accessible to the layman.
0000	Look at any newspaper or magazine, and you'll see advertisements for personal .
0000	Even the methods of getting information in and out of a have changed beyond recognition.
0000	When you want the to list what instructions it has received, you type LIST on the keyboard.
0000	When talking about , we use the word ‘hardware’ to describe the actual machine and its accessories, and ‘software’to describe the actual programs that are written and devised to operate using the hardware.
0000	When , as we understand them in a modern sense, first came into use in the early nineteen-fifties, they were huge, expensive and unreliable.
0000	Parts were always going wrong, and half the time were out of action as technicians laboriously tried to find and remedy faults.
0000	Quite apart from all this, took up an awful lot of space.
0000	All operate on a very simple and fundamental principle.
0000	The early programmer and user had to learn to speak the language of the , machine code, and had to learn how to put these simple instructions, often in very tedious forms, into the .
0000	I went on a training course in the mid-nineteen-fifties.
0000	After a week in the classroom, those of us who were regarded as having mastered the principles were allowed to run a very simple and short program on the London University , provided it was passed by one of our instructors.
0000	Not only have the basic building blocks of the become smaller and cheaper, and hence more readily available to a greater number of people, the language of the has become much more accessible to the lay person.
0000	These were used by the operator to write programs for his or her particular purpose.
0000	As a preliminary, the memory was fed with a large set of instructions for translating the program into machine code.
0000	A bit like getting the to swallow a dictionary and a book of grammar, before you started speaking to it.
0000	As more and more uses were found for in business and commerce, as well as in science and engineering, even easier languages were developed for lay use.
0000	In nineteen-fifty-five, about eighty percent of the capital cost of a lay in its hardware, with the other twenty percent being invested in software programs to perform particular tasks.
0000	A company might spend ten thousand pounds on a , but they would then spend sixty thousand pounds on the associated software to make it work.
0000	At the moment are increasing in speed by an average factor of ten per annum, and the number of in use in the Western world is increasing by about twenty-five percent per year.
0000	If we assume that the number of professional programmers, these are people who are competent to use and develop software, is roughly proportional to the number of commercial in operation, this means that if the trend continues, in ten years time, there will be a need for roughly a hundred times as many programmers than we've got as present.
0000	But if we take a guess that there are thirty thousand, this means that in nineteen-ninety, three million people, or something like a tenth of the entire working population, will be engaged in writing materials for .
0000	There will only be that number of if the range of applications and uses increases a hundredfold too.
0000	Don't put your daughter on the stage, Mrs Worthington, send her to be trained as a programmer.
0000	In the next few weeks, I shall be looking at all aspects of the world.
0000	are used increasingly for commercial purposes.
0000	Delia, have we reached a stage where not just big organizations but also quite small firms ought to each have their own ?
0000	If it only takes you an hour or two a week to run your administration, then you don't yet need a .
0000	But probably at the stage where somebody is spending two or three hours a day erm processing invoices, trying to get cash in, erm looking at the stock control, then that's the point where they could very well consider a small now.
0000	And what sort of price are we talking about when people say they ought to have a ?
0000	Well you've probably seen in erm the newspapers you can now buy small for one hundred or two hundred pounds, but they're not really what we're talking about, because the very smallest of this sort, like the Sinclair and the B B C , don't have any sort of storage for the data.
0000	So your rule of thumb, for starting, is that if somebody's spending more than two or three hours a day, perhaps, on accounts or stock-taking or whatever, then it might be worth checking out the possibility of using a .
0000	Because once you've got a running for your main application then you can always find other things to do with it which may help you to improve your business.
0000	This obviously adds on to the cost of your basic but if you are a small business it isn't an enormous amount.
0000	The sort of we're talking about would have two floppy disc units.
0000	And so, depending on what you want to do on nine o'clock on Monday morning, you would take out the required floppy disc, put it in your , take out your data disc, which you would also have kept, put that in the second floppy disc unit, and you'd be ready to run that particular application.
0000	An ordinary little firm that has operated perfectly cheerfully with a clerk and a few assistants over the years, is it actually a practical proposition to install the and perhaps train one or two of the workers to use it?
0000	erm What you can't do is take somebody who really the very idea of , and turn them into a successful operator, because they will make mistakes, and having made mistakes they will be terrified and won't want to do it again.
0000	But somebody that likes experimenting and that, is aware of all the possibilities that are opening with , will in fact learn very quickly.
0000	erm Anybody that's well-organized, good at clerical operations, preferably can type a little bit even though, if only perhaps with a few fingers, erm would make a perfectly operator for a small firm.
0000	Have you any idea, and as an estimate perhaps, what the total amount of a typical collection of software packages would be, compared with the actual cost of the ?
0000	Well, if you're talking about the smallest sort of business, and you've spent maybe two thousand pounds on your actual , complete with a printer and the floppy discs I've been talking about, then you might expect to spend another five hundred to a thousand pounds on a basic set of software.
0000	If you buy slightly larger with more storage erm and more facilities, then you will tend to pay more for the software.
0000	What are the advantages of actually using a to keep accounts as opposed to a gentleman sitting on a tall stool with a quill pen?
0000	erm And a lot of the time this gentleman would have been sorting through the data, finding out who owed how much money, writing them polite letters, and this is the sort of thing you can do very quickly with a .
0000	Does that have an advantage to put on ?
0000	I think for a very small company this perhaps might be more complicated in computing terms than would be worthwhile, but as soon as you're getting to the point of many orders in a week, then it can be exceedingly useful to be able to ask the to tell you for example what are all the outstanding orders, what are all the overdue orders, what is the stock position bearing in mind that some stock is committed for certain orders, what orders have we got with suppliers to us which are still outstanding, and questions of this sort, can make your business much more efficient.
0000	This is the sort of thing Reader's Digest have done for years, of course, on great enormous .
0000	What Reader's Digest with its enormous great have been doing for at least ten years, now people with small and a word-processing package can do for themselves, and certainly they would be selecting from their customer lists particular people to send particular advertising to and special letters.
0000	Yes, this is what big shops, particularly in America, have now been doing for a few years, in that the till that takes your order as it were is also a terminal on line to large somewhere else, and every time your tin of baked bins is checked out by the girl on the till, it is adjusting the stocks on its large and saying, ‘Hey, we're going to run out of baked beans at approximately ten o'clock tomorrow morning.
0000	But it is coming, and certainly some of the medium-sized shops, perhaps with a couple of two or three outlets but under the same management, where it's not quite so easy to see when you're running out of baked beans, are already beginning to take advantage of some of these retailing .
0000	What sort of general advice would you offer people who wanted to check out the possibility of using a in their own operation?
0000	And the sort of operations of course that are capable of being put on a .
0000	Quite often people don't need a , what they need is a slightly different manual system, and I tell them that quite often, they're very, very pleased, they think they've saved themselves two or three thousand pounds at least.
0000	But if you do find an area where you could save a key person several hours a day, then that is real money saved where he could be using his special expertise in his business to get more business, and then one would have to look more closely at erm the particular application, particular jobs that he's doing and that could be put on the .
0000	Having decided on that general application, then it's a question of shopping around amongst all the different that are on the market, and there are hundreds, to find the ones where the ready-made programs most nearly match the needs of that particular business.
0000	The software is the key to finding the right these days.
0000	And do you normally buy the software from the same person that sells you the ?
0000	Any company that's trying to sell is only too pleased to give demonstrations, and either you would go to their showroom, where they've got it all set up, erm or they would bring the, the equipment in to you.
0000	You certainly don't want your grinding to a halt in the middle of your important statement run.
0000	It's likely to be several hundred pounds a year even for the cheapest , at least ten percent of the cost of the a year, and it starts straight away.
0000	I don't really understand how suppliers seem to get away with this, because with most things you have a year's guarantee, and then you start your maintenance contract.
0000	But it's almost universal, with small , that you start your maintenance contract within days, or weeks, at most, of getting it installed.
0000	And so you can really consider that your first year's cost is not just the cost of the but it's also this extra few hundred pounds for your maintenance contract.
0000	Yes, but I think there's no need to buy just to be clever or to be well ahead of your neighbours or your other business friends.
0000	can also get in the way, and if they're not running properly they can be frustrating.
0000	So I think caution is erm very important in buying a , and if you wait a couple of months erm you won't have done any harm, because something newer and more beautiful is always on the way.
0000	In our programmes in the current series about , we've talked about all sorts of applications, in business, in science and in industry.
0000	We've recognized that the revolution is truly with us and is here to stay.
0000	Is it possible for the ordinary man in the street to become confident and competent in handling a system, whether it be in his office or in his home?
0000	This advertises a new home and makes a claim which I regard as quite outrageous.
0000	It effectively says that these understand English.
0000	The language that most of the home are used with is BASIC, and although there are a few words in that language which look like English words, like ‘If’ and ‘Let’and ‘Go to’and perhaps some others depending on the dialect of BASIC that you have, these words do not work in the way that ordinary English speakers are used to.
0000	Now, you can't say that kind of thing using ‘If’ in most languages, even though they do have an ‘If’.
0000	Whereas you can't do that sort of thing with erm most systems.
0000	Many features of these languages which derive from the historical accident that were first used mainly for manipulating numbers.
0000	There is no reason why shouldn't be natural and friendly, it's just that it takes a lot more memory in the to have all the complex rules of an ordinary language, and also it's much harder to write the programs that tell the how to understand a natural language.
0000	Now, to what extent could one move in that direction using a , which is a rather precise and definite sort of object that wants to know exactly what it has to do and how it has to do it?
0000	Now, if we can do it, and it's not magic, then there must be some reasons we can do it, some rules we're following, and those rules can in principle be put into .
0000	And right now there are computing systems in which, with which you can have a conversation, and you can use relatively sloppy English, and, like a person, if the doesn't know exactly what you mean, because your words are ambiguous, it will offer you several alternative interpretations erm if it has formed some, and then have a dialogue with you about which one you meant.
0000	Now, designing systems like that requires with big memories, much, much bigger than the ones that you can buy in your shop round the corner at the moment, and the programs are quite complicated, it's quite difficult to do this sort of thing, but in principle there's no reason why it shouldn't happen, and that would make much easier to learn to use.
0000	You talked a lot about being more friendly in the future than in the past.
0000	One I've already mentioned, namely, if you type something that the doesn't understand, it shouldn't just say, ‘I don't understand, Error number three hundred and twenty-two’, or something like that.
0000	With PASCAL, you have to prepare a whole program, and then you have to tell the to digest it, that's called ‘compiling it’, and then possibly it has to link in with other programs, and then you can run the program.
0000	We've attempted to design a system which is friendly in that it takes account of the different needs that a person will have at different times while trying to communicate with a .
0000	Well these are just some of the ways in which can be made more friendly.
0000	erm In principle it should be possible to be able to speak into a microphone, or to write on a pad, with a pencil, and the would be connected to the microphone or the pad and would take in and interpret what you've done, without having to learn this rather clumsy method of putting things in one letter at a time.
0000	At the moment, you can get adaptors for to cope with some form of speech or at least a limited range of verbal instructions erm and in fact Apple and others have little packages which allow about thirty well-defined verbal instructions to, to go in.
0000	In principle, though I think it's very difficult, as I understand it right now, you've got to go through a rather unfriendly session of training the to respond to your voice, and if you say something in a slightly different way later on it may not recognize it as the word that you had previously trained it on.
0000	For instance erm if you're communicating via a typewriter, there are various common mistakes which can arise out of the fact that two keys are close together, and so you've hit one key when you meant the other, and knowing that can help the to work out what you intended.
0000	At the moment, as far as I know, there is on the market no that really can have a large memory and is also within the price range for the ordinary primary school or home, but if these new falling prices of memory do come as quickly as some people are predicting, then that could make a huge difference.
0000	What I'm worried about at the moment is that large numbers of people are buying , especially some of the cheaper ones, and my prediction is that after a few weeks, they get put into cupboards, and aren't used, because they are so unfriendly, so hard to use, whereas in principle could be very powerful and useful devices in the home.
0000	And are you confident that the friendly brand of is coming fairly soon, or is there resistance to it amongst the professionals?
0000	There is some professional resistance, in the sense that people who've done a lot of work on programming get used to certain sorts of languages, and if you make proposals about teaching some new way of dealing with , they throw up their hands in horror, and object that this is going to be inefficient, or it's not going to prepare people adequately for what goes on in industry, or whatever.
0000	Next week the series finishes with a panel discussion about the ways in which society of the future will be affected by the revolution.
0000	Next week I shall be talking to Professor Max Clews all about and the human mind.
0000	Let me give you an example of, of how this is done with a game.
0000	I expect you'll want to talk about later but there's a simple game which, which shows a screen with thirty-six numbers from one to thirty-six.
0000	have come into schools both at secondary level and primary level.
0000	Is it worth having in primary schools?
0000	Many secondary teachers are worried about it because they say ‘The children are coming into the secondary school having perhaps used and we can't offer them computing for two or three years, erm you know and they're going to be very frustrated, erm and so perhaps they shouldn't go into primary’.
0000	There are a number of games that one can get erm there's Speak and Spell and I think there's another one called Little Professor.
0000	This is for teachers to come in the evenings after school and erm work with and perhaps more important is discuss with each other how they're using or whatever in, in their classes.
0000	awareness courses at the teachers' centres, the local authority are running them, erm there are user groups in Brighton and the, the area for, for such erm teachers and the University as you say runs courses with the Department of Education and Science erm to help primary and secondary teachers.
0000	In Engineering and Applied Science, there's a very wide experience in the broad area of electronics and and micro-processors, computer-aided design, and such topics as biomedical engineering and instrumentation.
0000	Tailor-made short course for individual companies, to bring their staff up to date with modern techniques.
0000	UCCA then have to process it, they create a record, they photocopy it, and pass those papers then on to the universities.
0000	How has maths teaching been influenced by the introduction of calculators and ?
0000	Is this largely due to being able to get many more measurements at many different places and stick them together rather rapidly using a ?
0000	We're always anxious to push out more forecasts if we can on these erm services but erm the Government are also leaning on us and saying, ‘Yes, but you're spending lots of money on satellites, and all this sort  erm You must get some of that money back.’
0000	Well the major advance that was made in the late Sixties and early Seventies was in radioastronomy, where large radio telescopes with control and very high sensitivity were developed.
0000	In our series about we're looking at applications in all sorts of different areas, and today we're going to talk about how they're used in medicine.
0000	I recently asked Dr Jim Hunter whether in the future diagnosis would be by rather than by doctor.
0000	Is a better than a doctor?
0000	Well, the studies that I've been involved in, the has performed certainly as well as a consultant, and at times much better than a junior doctor in the particular situation that I'm talking about.
0000	All of the uses that I know of diagnostic are  involve the doctor talking to the patient, looking at the patient, taking symptoms and then going and using the in a similar way that we perhaps might go and ask for an x-ray.
0000	The other answer is that erm certainly some trials have been done with patients not being diagnosed by a , but by giving initial information like their age, their date of birth, erm where the pain is, etc. erm actually interacting themselves with the , and studies have shown curiously that patients actually prefer to use a rather than to give this information to a doctor.
0000	But certainly it may even be that people might, in the future, even prefer to talk to under some circumstances.
0000	I suppose one advantage of a is that it can store and remember a great deal of information.
0000	The  if I can talk perhaps a little bit about the particular system that I'm interested in, the way it works is that it  well it diagnoses abdominal pain; if you go into the erm particular casualty department — in the fact the Royal Sussex County Hospital at the moment — with back pain in your abdomen, lower abdomen, then the symptoms will be taken by a doctor and he will then go to the diagnostic and feed these symptoms in.
0000	These cover a large range of things, like the patient's age, the patient's sex, where the pain is, where it started, how quickly it came on, and so on and so forth, and essentially within the has a large table, and this table contains, how shall I put it, the frequency with which this particular symptom was associated with a particular disease over the last few hundred patients that have been seen at that hospital.
0000	When I say ‘Where is the pain?’ and questions like this, this could be answered just by asking the patient, but there are erm various kinds of tests — one lovely test called Murphy's test, for example— which have to be carried out by a qualified doctor or a qualified medical person, so it's not a question of must being hooked onto the and the giving the answer.
0000	Is there anything special about this sort of ?
0000	Is it an ordinary digital of the sort that's used in commerce and industry, or is it a special type of .
0000	Is it the program or is it the that's specific?
0000	erm the one at the Royal Sussex is perhaps interesting, in that in fact it's  the is based on a microprocessor, so it really is using the latest erm in advanced microtechnology.
0000	The itself is a box, oh what, a foot and a half by a foot by two feet, very small.
0000	erm but it's the program, yes, it's the application of complex programs to thee very sophisticated but very small , I think, which is of interest in this particular case.
0000	mhm And how many places in this country are actually used in diagnosis?
0000	We did a lot of talking, of course, and then it was decided that we could possibly raise some money by going to the League of Friends, which we did, and they very generously provided  well in fact the whole total is about five thousand pounds, of which three and a half thousands represents the , and we're about to go live, as it were , in a week or two.
0000	This is one very good aspect of such projects, I think, that the interesting work is to be done at the interface between one discipline — medicine in this case  and another discipline — science — where both people just have to learn to talk to each other in their own language.
0000	I would, myself, be very keen to look at the possibility of such machines perhaps even going to third world countries, because it's even arguable that the place for such intelligence systems is not to replace expert medical people in this country where we have such people, but to export them to developing countries which don't have such people, and one could imagine, perhaps, a system of erm paramedical orderlies, who had some sort of medical knowledge and manipulative skill, taking a small expert in a shoe box — it would be no bigger — to villages and getting diagnoses of patient illnesses there on the spot.
0000	I believe there's one other area in which you're working, and that is putting together to simulate visual interpretation of some kind.
0000	That being so, the only way to get more computing power to attack any given problem — and the sort of problems I'm interested in are very complex problems — the only way to get enough computing power to tackle these may be to make a number of work together in co-operation; what we call multiprocessor systems or, since we're interested in microprocessors, small , we talk about multimicroprocessor systems.
0000	A particular research project that I and two colleagues, Keith Baker and Erin Sloman, have a grant from the Science Research Council for is to look first of all at the problems of getting such as system with, well at the moment three but possibly up to twelve , working on a given existing artificial intelligence problem to see how to take this big program — it's called Popeye — it's a research project to study various areas of visual perception, as you say — to see how to break this down and have it running simultaneously on a number of much smaller , rather than on the single big that it's running on at the moment.
0000	however, we're going to examine quite a different area  how can help librarians to make better use of their stock.
0000	Peter, how useful have you found the in our library?
0000	Well, first of all I suppose one should say that we don't just use one , we, like lots of other libraries, have got access to a large number of , and indeed you'll find these being used elsewhere for the same sort of work.
0000	That's very effective if you're dealing with factual information which is changing fairly rapidly, and I think we'll see quite a growth of that in the next few years, but libraries aren't just stores of factual information, they store a large number of books and articles and they need access to that too, and probably the most typical external use of a in libraries  in a university library, or academic library, these days is to access the huge stores of information on scientific publishing.
0000	There's one gigantic in California, which has got access to a hundred databases there called the stores of information, compiled mainly by the publishers of journals.
0000	In both Prestel and those sorts of things as you use the system you pay, and you pay for the telecommunications cost, you pay for the cost and you pay for the information that you receive, and that sort of worthwhile sharing of information, I am sure, is going to grow.
0000	However, my own interest, perhaps, is more in what a library, a typical library — not just a university library  can do with its own , and most of our readers, most of the people who use libraries, expect to find books in those libraries and expect to find them when they want them, and our interests have been angled very much towards improving that sort of service.
0000	So there's a sense in which you use a for all sorts of different purposes.
0000	You use a when books are issued, for example?
0000	I'm sure most people by now are quite familiar with the use of in this way.
0000	That's an interesting problem, the way we communicate to a is not the way we necessarily think of it.
0000	We all know how to use pens, we were taught how to use pen in primary school, but the can't read our writing yet, so we use something which looks like a pen, but is reading something which doesn't look like letters of the alphabet and words, but which it can understand and understand very quickly and very accurately indeed.
0000	And presumably the advantage of using a for that is much greater than the mere erm saving of time in a librarian taking out a card and putting it in a wallet or a card folder or something like that, because you can retain in your a lot of information about what books are in the library and what books are out with lenders and so on.
0000	That information is only part of the very large store of information that we need to retain in our own local , which contains records about, oh it's about a hundred and fifty thousand of our four hundred and fifty thousand different books at this moment.
0000	We've chosen to go it alone, but the net result is the same, that the store of information includes information on the authors and the titles of the books and, of course, now includes information on the books that are being borrowed, who's got them, when they're coming back, how many other copies we've got, whether we've got copies on order, and all of that, all in one central store of information, a central store which can be shared by everyone using the library.
0000	Now the can collect this sort of information as people borrow the books, as a sort of by-product if you like.
0000	The book is lent, it needs to be known when it's gone out, when it's due back, but the can clock up one.
0000	In fact the digests it for him to give him and overview of how effective his operation is, when he should be buying extra copies, when perhaps he should be thinking of not buying quite so much, or being a little more selective.
0000	About eighty per cent of the users are students, and they've normally been told to read this, or read that, or read the other and if they now use one of our terminals, which has got a little video screen on the top and a little keyboard, they can look up the books.
0000	They can look the up by title, by the title of the book, as well as by the traditional author approach, and when they've found it the tells them how many copies are in the library or whether or they're all on loan.
0000	The publisher, traditionally, needs to sell at least a thousand copies of that to be worth even advertising it, but this means that you can print an extra copy whenever you want and this then implies and even larger and larger growth in more and more specialised information which only can manage, and one hesitates to work out where the end of all this is.
0000	Oh yes, indeed, a close friend of mine has been working on a history of a very large British company and he's just seen the proofs produced from the printers from the typescript which was typed in his own office, and apart from the fact that their can change the typefaces and improve the whole thing, the work has not had to be rekeyboarded, as they would say, retyped in, at all.
0000	It's part of this way in which the can turn information over and over again for a different need.
0000	I saw in publishing a very nice example of that — not the word processing — but at John Wylies, who are very big scientific publishers in Chichester, where they had a system which the editor — he's the person who deals with the author, puts the book together — set about ordering the book, the orders and that information went into the , when the thing was printed it went into the warehouse and the then organised the storage of all of these things in the warehouse.
0000	It was a continuous process, and all of the people tended to see the as working very much for them rather than for the other department next door.
0000	And presumably if you wanted to revise a book at all and you had the book on your floppy disk or in your in some form, you could again use your word processor to bring it up to date in a revised version?
0000	Well that is  I think everyone who's ever worked on , editing or word processing, has been very fascinated by the change of attitude that they've had, that somehow it isn't finished, it's never finished.
0000	And it may be, for example, that you will have a school that has a very high erm high number of children perhaps who are particularly motivated towards studies.
0000	Now if you give the school its own budget it can in fact, if it so wishes, go to the private sector, it can buy in private sector expertise to teach the children, and that will be very beneficial.
0000	But if if a lot of schools opted out could you imagine that there might be one school that was famed for its excellence, and another school famed for its musical excellence, and you might have different specialist kinds of schools, not quite as dramatically delineated as I have suggested, but that would be the balance of interest in these different schools and would that be healthy?
0000	He has a brain, controlling the pneumatics inside that bring him to life.
0000	printers everywhere are turning out miles of paper, but until recently the right quality of environment-friendly couldn't be made.
0000	No I especially hope it will be read by sceptics, by people who have grown up with a kind of psychologically inspired dismissal of religion, people who've become so sophisticated, so busy they have no time for it, people who are so bemused by technology, by the greatness of human achievement, the , the moon rockets, the medical advances, that in their worship of human talent they forget that there's a point where human power ends and the power of God begins.
0000	It's not a new idea, but there's a, a electronics engineer and er enthusiast called Dermott Dobson who's brainchild this particular technology is, and he basically put it together in his back room.
0000	So, anybody entering the exhibition is encouraged to stand on a spot at the bottom of the stairs, and they place in the token that they've bought at the box office, as they do so, they get flooded in light, and the special voice made by the university takes you through into the exhibition.
0000	Obviously, when there is some snow on the hills in the summer you can't do much, so they are very carefully made and some of them are connected to a , so if you have a very good coach with you he can say ‘You're going that right, no do it a bit more like this, or a bit more like that’.
0000	It is, er it being a modern book as I say, completely new, it's, it's, it's part of the desk top publishing sort of revolution, so the actual data base is, is all held on , on a magnetic tape and is actually much bigger than this single volume book.
0000	So, you finish the conversation, and you just flick the handset, you flick the black button in other words, you don't fully put the handset down, so you flick the black button and you make another call and the camp on doesn't mature, it doesn't seem to mature because it doesn't seem to be long enough for the to recognise that the conversation has ended.
0000	So it's not engaged, but you can still camp on to their handset, basically  the , tell them when it's next used.
0000	Right, now we're  aren't we, we're , because the next time that that handset is used, the black button in other words is dislodged, and lodged, by the way, it will send a signal to the saying ‘Right, it's your turn to carry out the camp on if you want to, again you've got the choice, you don't have to, nobody has to answer a camp on.
0000	So it could go on all day, in fact it wouldn't mature would it overnight, because the doesn't allow it.
0000	You can't speak to a .
0000	And staying with rugby, today's local results in the Uniciss 's merit table; Sutton and Epsom six, Oxford thirty one; in the Oxfordshire merit table, an easy win for Grove; Grove fifty four, Harwell nil; in club matches; Banbury thirty four, Aylesbury six;Oldwood Giftians fourteen, Oxford Old Boys eighteen; Abingdon twenty eight, Aldermarston nil; Andover sixteen, Cholsey seven; Chipping Norton seven, Smiths nil; Tring thirteen, Gosford All Blacks nil; and Sidcup nine, Henley twenty four.
1991	This year again thanks to Bull HN Information Systems and Prompt Data's Theatrepack , we are linked with the Grand Opera House booking system.
1992	You're absolutely right Stephen, the formula should be W =  — gremlins in the again!
0000	that I've got, well, it works on my , it works someone else's , but on one
0000	Exactly, on some people's , it don't work and I don't understand that.
0000	And that, you try that  it doesn't work.
0000	stupid, it's a good , like, the stuff that's in this is very expensive but  start coming out, stuff like, you know, Mega C D's probably,
0000	I don't know, I mean,loa , new come out all the time.
0000	Show.
0000	That  .
0000	How can you half meg, you're in er, when like, when I first got my , get half meg extra was about a hundred pound, yeah, for the  one.
0000	I didn't bother getting a drive,be because I sold my , but I was gonna get one.
0000	bought his after me and he didn't get, he didn't get all the parts because it's, shouldn't got it
0000	Yeah, you put that on any .
0000	So when you're selling a , I thought you were selling into er,
0000	Amega five hundred , with many games, so obviously he's got pirates, with many games, once you  box  mint condition, with everything in mint condition, hundred and seventy pound.
0000	look after my , I'll be
0000	You don't dust your or anything, or else you get all them colours.
0000	Now I'm gonna go and get my mag!
0000	I'm back with a magazine now.
0000	And Super Kick off , the best game going out er, the best football game going out on the all !
0000	We make a lot of and things like that don't we?
1992	rang bank up this morning, summat wrong somewhere and it's supposed to be done by a , I don't trust I don't, I says the first  I don't know about having it back I should of said send it home  send it to me  address
1992	ready  on by a , do you have to wait three days?
1992	it's , transaction
1992	transaction
1992	yeah, but it goes from to , but summat's gone wrong ain't it?, somewhere along the line, they've rang the bank themselves  maybe he didn't believe your dad or not I don't know, she got back to him, she says, we've rang your bank and they were very helpful, they saw it  so what you have to do is ring Blackpool, she says as so as soon as Blackpool ring back, she'll ring
1992	yeah he is working he's a
0000	Got any new games for your ?
1992	Yes it's easy enough those  so, I hope they don't get bitchy because most of mine are on, on the
1992	The longest conversation we have is, get off the , it's my turn!
1992	And lots of graphics for James.
1992	Shall we do a little list on the , write it up?
1992	Keep talking and we'll go and print this stuff onto the , our little  list of names.
1992	He's a genius, but he's crap at everything else, geography he's useless at, economics he's useless at  I'm aiming basically for, I'd be happy with four As, five As maybe
1992	signified
