1991	Alderson is revealingly described: ‘poor old John Alderson [has]gone careering off the rails,[and is]now shacked up with the liberal party…an intellectual liberal reformer with radical ideas [whose]philosophical mumbo jumbo, often incomprehensible, and not very original, did nothing to ’.
1991	Still, it the grant-givers, without whom…’
1991	Hopeless to try and you with my slender collection of classical music.
1990	Some people by what they do, others by what they say, yet others by what they are.
1990	This so the then president of the Canadian branch of the Anglo Jewish Association that he invited the young man, scarcely more than a boy, to be its secretary; the start of a highly successful and very wide range of business and charitable interests.
1991	I said, ‘that should ruffle a few feathers,’ but she didn't seem the least .
1991	Cash greatly in defeating 25th ranked David Wheaton, and then by taking Lendl to 7–6 in the 3rd set in the final.
1991	Liefmans plan to potential customers with their products at this month's Innovate 91 exhibition in London where they will have a stand in the ‘Real Ale Village’.
1991	He me enormously.
1991	by their studiousness, we carefully counted out some coins, making sure each boy got the same amount.
1992	by her friend's Retriever's good nature, Marjorie decided on a Labrador.
1983	Both he and Sonya Marmeladov, in their separate areas of the novel, the need to accept suffering.
1989	But there are many good things here, nevertheless -these are skillful, powerful drawings, which by their sure sense of rhythm.
1989	The astounding indulgences granted Winterbotham by the regime apparently formed part of a scheme to woo ranking foreigners and through them their governments with Germany's mounting might.
1989	You can try to the waiter as a serious customer by specifying the type of tea you want, rather than just the brew in general.
1989	That's because we are all by authoritative statements spiced with statistics.
1989	Grand Metropolitan remained by the thought that it could be Sir James Goldsmith's next target, The shares rose 6p to 604p.
1989	I on them the need to bring independence to Namibia and progress in South Africa.
1989	He said afterwards that he and his colleagues on Mr Patten their fear that the tax could be a ‘poisoned chalice’ if it was not made attractive to voters.
1989	It itself upon you subliminally.
1989	Everyone has it upon them that on the day there will be no discussion of any problem.
1989	But what most you about this phenomenal piece of theatre is less its class affiliations than its national attributes: a drama of mutinous impulses crushed by an authoritarian social system is given consummate rendering by a cast who very triumphantly unite energy and discipline.
1989	His first posting in 1915 took him to the Toba Batak country in Northern Sumatra in time to witness the Muslim Acehnese rising against their Christian rulers; an event which made him appreciate the approaching crisis of Islam as a focus for nationalism, and upon him the urgent need for Muslim-Christian accommodation.
1989	He will be supported up front by Hamburg's Jan Furtok and the tousle-haired Roman Kosecki, a lively substitute at Wembley who, like his captain, Dariusz Wdowczyk, will be hoping to British talent spotters.
1989	This, because he wants to cut a figure among the fighting lads and Parolles, he is forced twistedly to repress.
1989	‘It was something that a lot of people.’
1990	This era of mild concessions to Belorussian culture Belorussians amongst the diaspora abroad who continued to believe that a truly democratic system might yet emerge.
1990	In addition the strategic significance of the railways had itself on the Bolsheviks.
1991	They and the neighbours were but mildly and Maria clearly disbelieving.
1991	What me most was the support the boot gave — almost like a ski boot but with no compromise of movement or sensation of cramping.
1990	His yielding to the edicts of Number 10 on financial policy eventually enabled the main thrust of Thatcherite innovation to show itself here, even though it was often the moderation as much as the radicalism which was to observers.
1990	One of the notable features of the mid-Thatcher period was a revival of the civil liberties movement, as governmental pressures against individual right of expression themselves on the public consciousness.
1991	His appearance, that first term, failed to everyone as it failed to the Master of his college.
1991	You now know who it is you want to .
1991	I him with my work on the Motors and Camel.
1987	’ A little later Kipling presents the description of a breaking wave as a ‘banjo string drawn tight’which so Eliot.
1990	So, by him, I got myself a bass guitar.
1987	Her disenchantment with the Foreign Office, already evident over Rhodesia and the EEC, came to a head during the Falklands War and she brought in Sir Anthony Parsons (who had her during the war when he was ambassador to the United Nations) to advise on foreign affairs and appointed Roger Jackling to advise on defence.
1991	But when MacDonald saw the King again at 10.20 p.m., to report that he ‘had no alternative than to tender the resignation of the Cabinet’, the King ‘on the Prime Minister that he was the only man to lead the country through this crisis and hoped he would reconsider the situation.
1991	At the beginning, His Majesty upon them that before they left the Palace some communiqué must be issued, which would no longer keep the country and the world in suspense.
1991	Three times he had made it clear to MacDonald that he did not wish to accept his resignation — on the morning of Sunday 23 August, when he told MacDonald that he would ‘advise them  (the other two party leaders) strongly to support (him)’; at 10.20 p.m. on the evening of the same day, after the Cabinet meeting, when the King ‘upon the Prime Minister that he was the only man to lead the country through this crisis and hoped that he would reconsider the situation’; and at the Buckingham Palace conference itself.
1991	upon the Prime Minister that the country had to be saved and that there should be a combination of all decent minded politicians towards this end.
1989	It was while travelling around the world for the UN that she first became with the simple forms of cosmetics made from natural ingredients used by remote communities.
1990	‘Do you think they will grow here?’ he asked, that they had come all the way from London.
1991	Nathan was awestruck with the audacity of it all, but when he turned to tell me how he was I was asleep.
1978	On the other is the atmosphere in schools, with its contempt of anything Indian or Pakistani, which on them that western dress is superior to anything Asian.
1990	Subjectively it feels every bit as fast as its maker claims, but what really is the torque.
1990	Like the G40, it with its throttle response and low-rev urge, but while the supercharged car is merely annoyingly noisy at speed, the GT brings a headache.
1990	The Corrado also in its rear passenger-space.
1990	JA II first with how tiny it looks for a car with such a monstrous reputation, second for the sheer physical intensity of the power when the Ford V8 crashes into life.
1991	Mika Hakkinen did a superb job for the under-financed Lotus team, the young Finn everyone with his mature and confident approach after stepping up from Formula 3.
1991	Larini for Lambourghini
1991	Renault is working hard to improve the quality of its products, and I must say the panel fit and finish on H375 DRV me.
1988	Many multi-storey mills — and continue to — by their sheer size.
1991	King James I was a vain, foolish man, full of grandiose, impractical plans to the rest of 17th-century Europe.
1990	What them most was that ActionAid works with the people themselves to decide how the money should be used to help the whole community.
1991	Like animals, they are great levellers — not remotely by a string of titles — and he always found he could build up a good rapport with them.
1990	Ships with Wings (1941), for example, tells the improbable story of a flyer who loses his commission after an attempt to the admiral's daughter leads to the death of her brother.
1991	‘Alternatively, a woman may have low self-esteem, feeling she can only others or make them like her by buying status symbols or the latest fashions.
1989	‘I have been most of all by the contention that removal to such an area would be damaging to the morale of journalists.’
1989	Arabs are no longer seen as cowardly and loathsome terrorists; their determination and solidarity has their enemies.
1989	Arabs are no longer seen as cowardly and loathsome terrorists; their determination and solidarity has their enemies.
1989	With his tie awry, an alert pair of eyes sparkling behind gold-rimmed spectacles, he the party by coming to the point rather than indulging in what he called the prefabricated speeches he had always hated.
1989	No one more than the 21-year-old Hawick wing Tony Stanger whose hat-trick of tries boosted his tally to five in two internationals.
1989	If the approach was to the reported carloads of northern scouts, they would have returned home with the memory of short explosive bursts, close support play and dogged determination, but little else.
1989	Unfortunately he failed to as a full-back.
1989	You dress to , the clothes you wear say a lot for you.’
1989	Bobby Robson, suitably , said: ‘Gascoigne gave a very reasonable performance.
1989	But one child I know caught his parents prowling around with stockings at the dead of night and is now upon his little pals that the whole thing is a con.
1989	Mr David Icke, a Green spokesman, said the Government appeared embarrassed that the bill would fail to as a careful response to environmental problems.
1989	We are in the Old Vicarage Farm now, which Johnson describes as a pretentious heap of shit built to the local peasants.
1989	Robson, who saw Brazil beat the Italians 1-0 in Bologna in October, flew on to Cagliari disappointed at the spectacle in the Feyenoord Stadium but with Brazil's organisation.
1989	The free-kick from Cruz that beat Italy was one, and the run and cross from Jorginho which led to Careca heading the winner in Rotterdam another, but in these games Brazil have as a team without making you want to leap out of your seat as Pele once did.
1992	Similarly Crest Homes Colegrove Down development of 21 luxury 4 and 5 bedroomed residences on Cumnor Hill Oxford has recently commenced and is also the public with its exceptional elevated location and high standard of finish.
1991	It was built to , and this it still does, rising from the village which huddles around it.
1991	Bruce Davidson was making a meal of explaining a straightforward case essentially because he was trying to Catherine Crane.
1991	‘Is one of them Perry Wilson?’ she enquired, visibly .
1991	‘Better grades than mine,’ McLeish said, .
1990	In 1957, costs were too uncertain and experience too limited in putting together so complex a weapon system for the Treasury to do more than on the Air Staff that the TSR 2 must be accommodated within the Air Ministry's financial ceilings.
1991	The calm, friendly manner of Mr Major and his ministers has their colleagues.
1990	Instead of its customers with the ease and convenience of, say, Microsoft's ‘Word’ word-processing program, the company hopes to wow them with the way that ‘Word’can incorporate charts or query a remote database for the latest sales figures.
1991	With a bit of luck, his example may fellow black nationalists across the border in South Africa.
1991	Mr Kaifu might accumulate enough successes to his party when it decides who should lead the country for the next couple of years.
1991	Spain's truculence is, in a sense, the proof of its maturity: no longer need it fellow members.
1985	There is so much of Keats that he admired — his pugnacity, his social concern, his gusto, his direct presentation of the moment's phases of mind and moods of temperament — that one becomes aware of the of Thomas's own mind and experience through his comments on Keats: ‘Because he was then in the midst of his greatest period, and had to find vent for the pressure of poetry within him, he had to live away from Fanny Brawne, at Shanklin and Winchester: had he been near her long, at this time, love and poetry together, not to speak of the ‘hateful literary chit-chat’ of Hampstead, would have been insupportable.
1988	A particular man is some matter with the general form of humanity ‘’ on it.
1991	Being signed by Hampshire as replacement for Andy Roberts just a few months after his Test debut gave him the chance to Clive Lloyd in county matches and in 1982 he really came good with 134 wickets, the best season's haul since the reduction in championship matches in 1969.
1991	In fact it proved surprisingly genial and Margaret Thatcher's transparent ability (later to another political opposite, Mikhail Gorbachev) had its effect on François Mitterrand.
1991	It still has its power to fascinate and .
1991	‘That's just a ploy — done to a prospective client who's coming this afternoon.,
1991	Christopher seemed by this.
1991	Sure, the newly created position with its impressive job title sounded important, but that was only to the media and the public.
1991	It no-one at corporate management level.
1991	He was a young lawyer of about thirty in his first year in  Parliament, who had sufficiently someone in Government to have been given the job of Junior Minister at the Trade office.
1991	Nigel said ‘Your place or mine?’ when they'd both duly each other with lies.
1991	Nigel determined to her by his abstinence and sensible qualities.
1991	One day while he was in his favourite bar, busy a young temp, his wife walked in.
1991	After the first exchange of letters, he would tell Viola about it to her of his need and, indeed, his right to her.
1991	Buñuel, the creator of a film that deeply my youth,Los olvidados , gives a love-hate description of his Zaragoza childhood in his autobiography,Mi ultimo sospiro (My Last Gasp).
1991	Beaker pottery is characterised by often skilfully made vessels with an S-shaped profile and zones of geometric decoration produced by twisted cords, stamps or combs into  the clay.
1991	‘What has always me deeply…is the blind despotism of fate…the terrible, indifferent Fate, this tyrant Chance, slays or spares, mutilates or rewards, annihilates or passes by without herd, without thought, with absolute blankness of purpose, aim or passion.’
1991	Towards the end of the nineteenth century this belief began to itself upon a few mature minds that were open to a concept of childhood quite different from that of an earlier age, when children tended to be regarded as nothing better than undeveloped adults.
1991	A conducted tour of the house by the whole family, brought him at last to the top floor where his bedroom was proudly displayed, which, though huge and filled with awesome furniture of hideous elaboration, him less than the meticulous care with which his soldier servant — batman was apparently a naughty word in the Guards — had unpacked his belongings and laid all essentials neatly in the right places.
1990	Yet this fact does not seem to have Orwell and some other, more recent, writers.
1990	Clearly with is new-found walking advertisement, he finds Madonna ‘very easy to get along with.
1991	Suggestions that he could avoid the damage by protecting the wheat fields with electric fencing do not Mr Berry.
1991	If you want to your friends, you can nonchalantly steer them towards the small plaque on the side of the bonnet.
1991	Neither was the paintwork, whose ‘orange peel’ finish didn't .
1991	He made no effort to be understood, or liked; no attempt to .
1991	Mungo said, full of bravado to Emily.
1990	He knew them all, but somehow his special talents always failed to those who really mattered.
1991	Most of them produce an annual flush of bloom, but this is unlikely to as much as the beautiful leaves themselves.
1991	If what he saw through security did not him, Tammuz need never know he'd had a visitor.
1990	He performed cures of both body and mind but from compassion, not to doubters.
1990	As one looks along the line of great bishops stretching back to Boniface and Wilfrid and the great Gallic and Spanish bishops of a still earlier age, one understands what these writers.
1989	Patting does not mean slapping the horse with the open hand to make as much noise as possible, which is often done to the onlookers; the horse's neck should be caressed fondly and delicately.’
1990	It's not true that girls dress up to men, or ‘catch’ a boyfriend, because I think girls know that the people who will most appreciate their particular look or style, or the fabric or colour in their outfit, will be their friends.
1990	Maybe boys think that we dress up to them, but they will only say something looks nice if it looks obviously sexy; other than that, they're hopeless.
1989	This is merely routine arrogance, but it obscures from them the fact that they could everyone a lot more if they could do a better job — and with a bit of help they could.
1989	Most students liked to talk a lot because they thought it would the professors.
1989	I know that, like a lot of ordinary concert-goers and record collectors, you are not very much by the slimmed-down sound of the present generation of period-instrument performers; but your performances of the B minor Mass in the 1930s and '40s were regarded as being almost revolutionary, with very buoyant rhythms and slimmed-down textures.
1989	He has always me as a man of great good humour, and with a wonderful fund of stories.
1989	I remember Shostakovich was so nervous but at the same time so .
1989	There she quickly settled into school life and although she claims to have been ‘very shy’ made lots of friends and the staff with her helpfulness and charm.
1989	David and his pals spent long summer days at the local swimming pool and they were out to the girls.
1988	But there were also those who were neither ambivalent nor hostile, but — normally to their surprise — by what they saw.
1988	The courtyard design of Linlithgow was completed under his inspiration; it was this architectural gem of a palace which so Mary of Guise, whose admiration was by no means merely wifely tact.
1991	They were not, however, by what they found to be the ‘superfluous materialism’ of the Federal Republic which they said was ‘rather stupid’.
1991	‘I've tried to on people -I go round the schools and catch them young — that if they don't leave us their stuff, uncaring descendants may simply throw out a tool, plate, picture or letter, preferring to have a stainless-steel fork, a plastic plate, a multiple…’
1991	The soundlessness of nature and solaced her.
1991	Elisabeth listened to this exchange with interest, by the Colonel's consideration and his wife's capacity, despite her silliness, to make a fine distinction.
1990	‘The front door!’ said Rose, mightily , as they stood at the top of a flight of wide stone steps, flanked by funerary urns, which led down to the drive.
1992	I'd heard that American Music Club were something wonderful, but when I saw them at the Grand in Clapham recently, I wasn't that .
1992	WITH Andy Gregory, the Wigan scrum-half, confirming yesterday he would be in contention for Great Britain's summer tour squad to be announced on Monday, the fringe contenders have their last chance to over the weekend.
1992	The two coxes are well above average, Probert having considerable Tideway experience, while Elizabeth Chick, the third woman to steer for Oxford, has also in practice.
1992	Some big firms have cut the pay of senior executives in a move to on humbler employees that times are tough.
1992	But Wanless has his non-executives.
1992	Rolled passes do not the purists, or stop the opposition, but Gloucester were slow to see the threat of Swift coming across field and when Guscott took Barnes' pass, Swift appeared outside him with the powerful Fallon overlapping on his left.
1992	Most of the streamlined, designed-to-appeal policies which appear to have voters have emerged from a Review Group headed by Tom Sawyer, chairman of the Labour Party and deputy general secretary of the National Union of Public Employees.
1992	The man who so Jack Nicklaus in last year's Open struck a four iron to eight feet for a two at the next and added three more birdies.
1992	Scott Quinnell, 19, was the game's outstanding forward, and a 50-yard run down the touchline with the ball in one hand and handing off tacklers with the other would have Alan Davies, the Wales coach, who was watching from the stands.
1992	The attempted sale has not residents, the Open Spaces Society, Hampshire County Council or Basingstoke and Deane District Council.
1992	Support will come from another useful acquisition in Joey Benjamin, 31, who was kept out of the Warwickshire side last year after in 1990 with 34 wickets at 30.
1992	by Sheehy's ‘very forceful personality,’ Cluff's attraction to the BAT boss was enhanced by his links with the Dark Continent.
1992	After another spell at the Treasury he returned to Downing Street in 1982, spending three years as Mrs Thatcher's Principal Private Secretary, where his ‘Rolls-Royce mind’ many.
1992	Speedway: Dugard is aiming to
1992	Apparently in an effort to his beloved, Van Gogh made a tiny drawing of the house, 87 Hackford Street, Brixton, which still survives.
1992	He knows the place well — it was part of his Foreign Office brief three years ago — and he people there with his sympathetic views.
1992	Although Saddlers' Hall, runner-up to Toulon in last year's St Leger, did not defeat strong opposition, it was more the way in which he achieved this victory that and he is certain to be a force later in the season.
1992	Hirst, after 55 minutes, and Worthington, after 87, struck the decisive goals, but it was the all-round display — and Coton's goalkeeping for City — which must have the watching England manager Graham Taylor.
1992	He so the permanent secretary, Sir Donald Maitland, that he was invited to the key civil servants' committees.
1992	He scored his first senior hat-trick and stole the thunder of Ian Wright, who was anxious — too anxious, said Mr Graham — to against his former team-mates.
1992	It her illustrious opponent, who said: ‘Cassie is a very fine player.
1992	If he , there is no doubt he will become clear favourite.
1992	He faces seven rivals, including Kentucky Derby contender Dr Devious, who Cash Asmussen in a gallop at Newbury on Saturday.
1992	Eight detained in hospital after ‘appalling carnage’ The bravery of two young girls hurt in the explosion has their nurses, writes Alastair McCall
1992	I'm shaken, but deeply , and — now that the shock has worn off — delighted.
1992	ANDY SINTON, the Queens Park Rangers winger, will be one of several young hopefuls keen to England manager Graham Taylor before the end of the season.
1992	While Nielsen's decision to miss England's bronze-medal victory over the CIS on Tuesday did little to his team-mates, the Surrey player reaped the benefits with two straight-games wins.
1992	In a misguided attempt to the veteran American producer, I brought up the name of Jaume Sisa: a songwriter I once met by chance in a bar in Barcelona, and a man whose work is considered obscure even in Catalonia.
1992	The dignified way he handled the tragedy of his father being gunned down in Bangkok everyone and, although he went 7–0 down to White in the British Open final, he still had the bottle to capture seven frames before losing 10–7.
1992	SHOULD the personable Steve Norris fail to as an under-secretary at the Transport Department, it should not be for want of preparation.
1992	SHOULD the personable Steve Norris fail to as an under-secretary at the Transport Department, it should not be for want of preparation.
1988	The man chosen was Russell Butler, a research student in social history at the University of London, who as a part-time tutor had taken the first course for apprentices at Marconi and had greatly both here and in other courses for the branches in Hemel Hempstead and St. Albans.
1985	It's easy for us to be friendly and kind to people that we think highly of or that we want to .
1990	Further back, Judi had envied Anne her college boyfriend, had always tried to and amuse the older girl, had briefly tried to copy her clothes and food preferences, had longed to be asked to share her toys so that she could express her devotion through generosity.
1990	The productivity of the area Pehr Kalm on his visit later in the century.
1990	The Professor appeared and asked Linnaeus to remain at Oxford and share his stipend.
1990	The white pine,Pinus strobus , also from America and known in this country as the Weymouth Pine, Miller both for its beauty and utility.
1990	Henry VIII the Continent, in the midsummer of 1520, at the ‘Field of the Cloth of Gold’ held a few miles south of Calais, and which lasted four weeks with jousts, summit talks, banquets and entertainment.
1984	John Allen, a man experienced in straight theatre, children's theatre and radio, who, although deeply by the high quality of movement teaching both in the regular D.E.S.
1978	He remembers vividly being by their depth, the holes being close-boarded and strutted, the construction taking several weeks to complete.
1991	The parable is as follows: In an occupied country during wartime, a member of the resistance meets a stranger who deeply him, and who assures him that he is on the side of the resistance.
1986	What the men did next is also not disclosed but clearly something the ladies again because before the year was out they spontaneously and bountifully agreed to ‘always let the men through directly they are in any way pressed’, a decision now overtaken by the bye-laws.
1989	The Russians played along with this charade and gave Blake similar information with which to his superiors so that the arrangement appeared to be working in favour of MI6.
1993	Brackley itself produced rather few people who themselves on the historical record.
1993	The poems which the gentleman could only have been produced by a poet with rings around her eyes.
1970	And these — garments — are the sort to ?’
1991	The aim was to put them on the spot — or at least to the Inspector with your knowledge and concern.
1990	Not at all .
1990	With hindsight, Beatrice's    remark that she was not at all and didn't know who he was seems significant.
1991	He waited in growing irritation while a woman minutely described her missing cat, and on the desk-sergeant that it would only answer to the name Roger.
1991	There is nothing left either in womanpower or funds to devote to blowing our own trumpet, so we have been unable to you with the extent and importance of our work.
1990	Too much sunlight might upon me the idea of how much more agreeable it would be out of doors rather than hunched over a sheet of almost blank paper.
1991	Although the banquet and establishment of courtiers and servants was as splendid as possible, there was a feeling in the air which me with the idea that the whole pageant might be ephemeral.
1991	He indicated to Haussmann that the form of the railway station, a huge open space covered by glass, had him as a possible model and as a result of the Emperor's predilections, and Baltard's skill, the great new market of Les Halles was built in a light, airy combination of iron, stone and glass.
1991	It was these brilliant architectural triumphs which so much foreign visitors, many of whom had a professional interest and who came to learn as well as admire.
1991	Another completely unknown actor, also thirty but looking much younger, named Dustin Hoffman, director Mike Nichols so much in his off-Broadway plays that he was running favourite, despite his lack of experience.
1989	Nor did it the Arab states, which pointed out that if Israel was able to absorb hundreds of thousands of Jews it could certainly absorb more than 100,000 Palestinian returnees; or the United States, which did not think the Israeli offer ‘provide[d] a suitable basis for contributing to solution of Arab refugee question.’
1989	The glittering figure who us so much is no more.
1989	He's brittle, he's dry, why were we so anyway?’
1991	The emergence in the 1930s of such writers, in touch with and by the modernists, suggests that any lapse in the experimental tradition at the time was not a complete one.
1990	Victoria was a graceful partner for Prince Richard, now a small, slender and self-conscious boy, but he forgot the sequence of steps to the eightsome reel and did not her.
1990	Very few boys Victoria; they all seemed inadequate beside her brother.
1990	The director, even more with the tall, meaty young man with a flashing smile and an indefinable and absolutely spurious air of distinction, gave him walk-on parts.
1990	He hesitated, by her defiance as she had hoped.
1990	And her love would them…
1990	He was determined to let the clan see they'd made no mistake in choosing him, and was off on a round of visits to all the main families, to them with his strength and intelligence, good sense and good humour.
1990	Actually, I am not sure that I was there on that night of his arrival, and I don't claim to remember all the details or to have been as by his appearance, framed in the doorway, as some people I drink with do; I think they just want to talk about their witnessing his first appearance that way — as if he was an angel or something extraordinary — because of what went on to happen later.
1990	The fourth book had, as I said, Boy with its famous scene of the unwritten letter, which he thought must relate in some way to his own collection of letters.
1990	We were, let me tell you, .
1989	Of course, Miss Kenton cannot hope by returning at this stage ever to retrieve those lost years, and it will be my first duty to this upon her when we meet.
1989	I thus set about preparing for the days ahead as, I imagine, a general might prepare for a battle: I devised with utmost care a special staff plan anticipating all sorts of eventualities; I analysed where our weakest points lay and set about making contingency plans to fall back upon in the event of these points giving way; I even gave the staff a military-style ‘pep-talk’, upon them that, for all their having to work at an exhausting rate, they could feel great pride in discharging their duties over the days that lay ahead.
1989	But how , you may be asking.’
1991	Captain Frederick Roy-Smith was serving in Germany in the Royal Army Veterinary Corps and had seen Rottweilers who had him greatly, especially with their working ability.
1991	Lewes had spent only a short time with the unit, but had everyone with his absolute dedication to his work.
1991	Having enjoyed ourselves so much and being by the professionalism shown by our instructor and other divers at the centre, we decided to pursue our new hobby when we returned home.
1991	An easy way to novices is by quoting the latin names of various sea creatures.
1976	Incidentally, why does this us so?
1976	as we may be by the caddis house, we are nevertheless, paradoxically, less impressed than we would be by equivalent achievements in animals closer to ourselves.
1985	It was ‘Suffer Little Children’ which the most.
1985	A meeting was arranged and Rourke, by the tape, threw all his enthusiasm into the audition.
1990	You may be surprised how some buyers and their surveyors will be with a good clean manhole!
1990	But most important of all, as Edmund Blunden observed, ‘The training he had undergone meant an additional quickness and rightness in his observation as a general habit, which was so valuable a resource in his novels and his other writings; the singularities and visible strange histories of ancient buildings on him, still young, the analogous unexpectedness and incongruity of the fabric of human affairs.’
1990	As we approached the loch, in order to Blair with my vast knowledge, I repeated Stan's tale about Pennel Point, being careful not to mention who had given me such valuable information.
1983	The Russian ballet was Pliaska , a ballet to music by Liadov about the romps and romance in a Russian village; the gaiety of his dancing that one local critic, Dennis Hatfield.
1983	He also had a real enjoyment of brief, casual relationships, sexual or otherwise; one of his gay friends remarked to me that even with a passing infatuation, a pick-up, John never tried to people with who he was, never used the glamour of his position to dazzle them, but was interested most in finding out who they were, what kind of person.
1991	I went straight out and broke a window, I was that …’
1988	Although it both Cicero (106–43 BC) and Virgil (70–19 BC;), the Epicureanism on which it was based made little impression on the Romans, except for its hedonistic aspect.
1988	The best way to politicians is to mobilize public opinion.
1988	I upon the doctor to really talk with Ron, and he said he had, but that Ron didn't seem to hear what he was saying, how ill he really was; and when we hung up, I was really quite shaken.
1991	It was not only the size of the church that had him but the decoration, the overwhelming, almost suffocating richness of the baroque interior.
1990	The shape seemed .
1990	She was, she told everyone, particularly with Henry's speech.
1990	I asked, expecting an Arabic name with which to my friends.
1983	Nutty raised her eyebrows, .
1983	The professional look her, and she decided immediately to get her own team similarly kitted out.
1983	Seb groaned, but — with the impressive upper-class confidence in his own innate superiority which always Nutty enormously — waded into the melee and started to beat off the boys who were dragging Jazz down the road by his hair.
1990	Charles looked at Reginald: ‘Nearly so,’ he said; ‘he smelt strongly of it and his tongue was very loose, trying to .’
1990	Of course, at the time I know I said it was all put on just to him, because she was no more for doing good works than I was.
1990	They have made their case for the ordination of women with obvious conviction, backed up with arguable facts (in my opinion)— but the whole argument is delivered in a studiously temperate and fair way that will even those who disagree with it.
1991	But her clothes, make-up and hairstyle were not designed to please, but to .
1991	He was getting old now and didn't bother overmuch about people.
1991	He was waiting to his Maker, and he would have the chance before long.
1992	Meetings can build your image, perhaps by your boss or subordinates.
1992	Your determination to ‘get it right’ will far more than a false sense of confidence or a reluctance to admit you could do with assistance.
1991	Exercise for yourself rather than to or conform with anyone else.
1991	The person with a healthy Inner Face is the one who is most able to form good relationships with others; he does not feel that he has to put on an act to yet neither does he feel superior to those with whom he comes in contact.
1991	Putting names to faces : You may wish to be able to look at someone and think instantly of his name because it makes social life so much easier; or you may wish to improve your chances of a business acquaintance (and possibly making a deal as a result).
1992	Even though Owen was intelligent (he could his teachers on occasions), he was generally regarded as a ‘problem child’ with special needs.
1988	Trusty was very serious, which the Brownies very much, for Miss Truscott, or ‘Trusty’, as she was called by the Pack, was a young Guider and usually very gay and jolly.
1988	Nor was he much at the Liskeard inns of the times, or at least one: ‘…a tavern of despair frowned amid congenial desolation’.
1981	Jones, a Welsh international who the Arsenal manager with his fighting qualities and intelligent play, was to be the ‘flying-column’ on the left-wing, matching Hulme on the right.
1981	According to Bob Wall: ‘What Chapman even more than the sureness of his hands was Frank's physical courage.
1980	The long lists of ‘doubles’(usually carp) that some anglers publish each season do not me at all.
1992	The River Otter, Coleridge's ‘dear native brook’, borders the town to the west, and makes its leisurely way through a landscape which to eighteenth-century inhabitants seemed ‘the richest finest Country in the world’, and which even now preserves the striking beauty which so itself on Coleridge's young mind.
1992	Coleridge's improbably romantic explanation and evident intelligence so the man that he gave the remarkable child a subscription to the circulating library in Cheapside, where he began, according to his own not unlikely account, to read every book it contained.
1979	Here it would be useful to upon the new councillor the relationship  between the official and the council.
1947	It was impossible not to be slightly surprised and .
1990	one of the two flashy men-about-town, professing intimate acquaintance with all sorts of illustrious personages (‘even the Blood Royal ran in the muddy channel of their personal recollections’), whom Tigg introduces to Jonas Chuzzlewit to the latter with the power and glory of the fraudulent insurance company he is seeking to involve Jonas in.
1986	In the near half-century since that Windrush summer I have heard the work performed by many artists, but never to as much as in that lovely seascape setting many years ago.
1986	I was more than mildly with Miss Semmens and decided I would certainly have to see her again — and soon.
1986	After visiting Bruce Hutchison, the next stop would be at the home of Mrs Nellie McClung whose books ‘Clearing in the West’ and ‘The Stream Runs Fast’had me as a youth.
1986	So was I that I took Hellen to meet her at a later performance the same week.
0000	The surrounding countryside by its look of prosperity and the sense of a thriving people.
1980	It was such sayings as these that inspired the dervishes some of whom were in the armies of the Khalif and the British soldiers as no other warriors ever did.
1991	It was the Ipswich set-up under the management of Bobby Robson which most him and the East Anglia team offered the teenager £4,000 to sign.
1991	But over the years, his sales techniques have irritated as much as they have , and he has been periodically banned from Celtic Park, Tynecastle and Fir Park.
1990	Loyalty, service, and duty were exactly the values which the ‘boy labour’ reformers sought to upon young workers, and as many of the reformers were also active, or had been active in one or more of  the youth groups, they were sympathetic to the objectives of the Scout movement.
1990	John MacCunn, Professor of Philosophy at Liverpool University and author of several standard texts on citizenship and character, was keen to upon his readers that rights alone did not make the citizen; what mattered was the way in which they were used: democracy itself was only a beginning, not an end.
1990	This theme is one which forcefully itself upon Edwardian social politics, and thereafter.
1991	Despite the lodging-house furniture, the room bore hallmarks of long individual occupation, Aranyos having it with his stamp in the form of various ornaments, mostly of a military flavour.
1991	Why bother learning a language to visitors, when you hadn't even troubled to learn that of the place where you lived?
1991	‘Really?’ said Karelius, looking .
1991	His brother officers were silly, shallow men, more interested in ladies with the cut of their uniform, and trifling intellectual pretensions, than in the real business of a soldier.
1991	Met him — quite .’
1991	After all, look at those whom you have tried to , were they worthy of all your efforts?
1988	The less you have of it as, for example, in a short face-to-face contact, the more difficult it is to and/or influence.
1991	As Palace in Division One in 1990–91, Mark's prowess gained further recognition when he scored The Eagles' decisive goal against Liverpool in the televised Football League match on 30 December, but Palace fans had by then long since ceased to need any persuading that this intelligent and hard-working centre-forward is among the best in the country.
1991	Harry Collyer was a local boy from nearby Bromley, who joined us in September 1906 for what was only our second season, after in a pre-season trial game.
1991	John Pemberton was Palace's genial and gutsy full-back throughout our promotion drive to Division one in 1988–89 and then in The Eagles' progress to the FA Cup Final and Replay of' 1990 Indeed, his surging run in the semi-final against Liverpool at Villa Park, which took him past several defender s, before he delivered the cross from which Mark Bright put the Palace on terms and on the way to our stunning victory, will probably remain for ever in the memories of those who saw it, even though he enormously in the two Cup Finals against Manchester United's sophisticated and costly imports.
1991	Vic goes down in football's annals as the first international player to be chosen from the ranks of the 4th Division (for Wales against Northern Ireland in Belfast on 22 April 1959), but Palace fans should know that this was no freak selection, for Vic had many with his splendid performances and was in a run of 143 consecutive League games with just a single absence for us.
1991	Having done so, he won the Barclays Young Eagle of the Month award for our region twice in four months, having no less a seasoned observer than the great Bill Nicholson of Tottenham and England.
1991	Injuries reduced his availability in 1988–89 but he captained The Eagles through the following season upon the club's return to Division One, while also scoring vital goals against Portsmouth and at Cambridge in our tremendous run to the 1990 FA Cup Final, where his performances observers.
1984	Villa owners their neighbours by having the largest and best bath houses they could afford.
1990	By imparting his enthusiasm to his pupils, them most earnestly with the importance of their calling, he sent them out into the world with a store of self-respect which greatly contributed to uphold  their position, and gave them an impetus to endeavour to raise its standard, which was often crowned with the most happy success’.
1988	I was a fool but nobody on me the need to save.
1988	Deeply in love with Francis Mangon, she was anxious to him professionally.
1985	Who was he trying to ?
1989	Much with my narrow escape, Dad carried the object downstairs on top of the sand in the fire bucket — it did come in handy after all — and we sat around gazing at it, drinking the inevitable tea and storing up this tale to pass on to all our friends and relations.
1989	He told us some harrowing stories of life on a bomber aerodrome which had ‘main force’ squadrons, always carrying heavy loads of high explosives and incendiaries, and on us how lucky we were to be on a Pathfinder station.
1984	She must have  Green for he gave eye-witness accounts of the so-called Sally of Buttermere and his various meetings with her in 1791 when she was but 14, again in 1792,1794, and in 1798 when he felt an irresistible wish to revisit Buttermere.
1984	‘All nature seems to be in an uproar, which on the awakened imagination, the most lively ideas of the ‘war of elements’ and ‘The crush of worlds’’.
1992	When he completed his circumnavigation of the world, his contemporaries were just as by the fact that he achieved this feat without losing a single member of his crew to scurvy.
1991	with the Buckau's success, the German Admiralty commissioned the Weser Shipyards in Bremen to build a new, larger rotor ship on a proven full design.
1991	MAKING an obscure joke that failed to anyone the other week (it was about warts and the treatment of them) I did, at least encourage one reader in Israel to send me a palindrome about them.
1991	At the presentation, Sir Humphry did not pass up the chance to upon the business world the great value of science to their endeavours: ‘Science, gentlemen, is of infinitely more importance to a state than may at first sight appear possible; for no source of wealth and power can be entirely independent of it; and no class of men are so well able to appreciate its advantages as that to which I am addressing myself.
1991	The advantages of being conspicuous, and thus rapidly predators with one's distastefulness, outweigh the risk of being eaten before the message is conveyed.
1991	True, there were packets of walnut bits too, but they failed to themselves on me.
1991	‘Are you with our modern civilization, with all the technical progress?’
1991	just this side of awe as I am by the Department of Transport and its fearless tackling of such problems as juggernaut lorries and EEC regulations, I must nevertheless confess some disquiet about a recent plan.
1991	He took his account of the little balance as well as some research on centres of gravity and travelled to Rome to a couple of eminent intellectuals, and he succeeded, being appointed professor of mathematics at Pisa when he was 25, though he had never had a university degree.
1989	You need to on him that it will only work if it is done properly — that there must be absolutely no cheating.
1988	A ‘church’ in this context really means an organisation which has acquired, in addition to the trappings of ritual and mysticism with which it seeks to its followers, all the nature of a corporate business with all the appurtenances, paid staff, premises and property which is appropriate to a public company.
1990	The amusing story spread like wild-fire through the district and tradition maintains that it the fertile imagination of the young Robert Burns, who was nine years old at the time, and that he recalled the incident many years later when he was creating his masterpiece, the poem Tam O' Shanter , which is set in the ruined kirk.
1990	This story did not the court who took the view that she had used a knife to cut off the head soon after its birth, and eventually she had to admit the truth.
1990	One day, to escape heavy rain he wandered into a tavern called the ‘Spotted Dog’ which was kept by Joe Parrish, a veteran fighter, who became with the young lad — then aged 16 — and began to teach him the science of the ring.
1990	Born near Doncaster, Edward Kirk lost his hearing through a severe illness when aged 2, and was sent to be educated at the Yorkshire Institution for the Deaf and Dumb where his abilities so the headmaster, the great Charles  Baker, that he was kept on first as a classroom assistant, thence from 1871 as a teacher.
1990	by what he saw, he resolved to do the same for Liverpool.
1990	by the Boy Scouts he had encountered, Mr. Shaw resolved to start a troop at his school, and when the pupils returned to school after the summer holidays in August 1910, the Royal Cross School Troop was formed, followed shortly afterwards by the Royal Cross School Guides Troop.
1991	Fraud investigators say he posted hundreds of fake job applications last year, a few in Russian, a few in Turkish — anything to the big oil companies, some of which flew him to Riyadh and Aberdeen for interviews.
1991	That, however, did not Judge Gabriel Hutton, who, at the end of the 45-minute hearing, sentenced Wright to three years in jail.
1992	I write as someone who's always been able to take or leave Harrison Birtwistle's music: the oeuvre as a whole arouses my respect, and by its fiercely-defined character and self-consistency, but only a limited number of pieces (among them The Triumph of Time, The fields of Sorrow, Melancolia I, Carmen Arcadiae Mechanicae Perpetuum ) have spoken to me strongly and cried out for repeated listening.
1986	There is clearly no sense in setting an impossibly short timetable  in order to the client.
1989	If one suspends judgement and looks at a cross-section of these novels, one comes away quite .
1989	And there are readers who have been deeply moved and in the ways that we have described by books that cannot be described as the best of anything.
1990	My pair were purple and black, so that when it rained they dyed my socks, which did not my mother at all.
1980	Nor were they by arguments about services, conservation or ‘community development’.
1980	by their officials' strictures about the need for obeying government rules and directives as a means of maintaining some notion of good local government and the good opinion of Central Government, with a sense of loyalty and dependency towards their officials, and a feeling  that their own integrity was at stake, they maintained the policy.
1991	Dennis apparently saw me as ‘family’, or at any rate as someone he didn't have to .
1991	I made no attempt to or ingratiate.
1991	Karen wasn't trying to anyone, so we ate promptly and quite well.
1991	‘It's beautiful!’ she gasped, much .
1991	Paula repeated, .
1990	Lipski was both shocked and by the offer.
1990	However, the Countryside Commission, the Government's advisory body, is making strenuous efforts to upon everyone the need for sensitivity when dealing with development.
1989	Apparently this one and only brush with city life him not at all.
1992	Durham are missing a chance to in an area where cricket remains primitive.
1992	And he rarely complained during his recuperation from the first back operation, to repair a number of fractures, which looked like being successful when he returned for Middlesex at the start of 1991 and took four for 60 against Somerset with a performance which particularly his own wicket-keeper Paul Farbrace.
1992	Ellcock looked like a thoroughbred in 1989, his first season for Middlesex, and enough to earn that surprise England call-up.
1992	Gresham's School, Holt have made their contribution of players over the years and they are the current holders of the Henry Griserson trophy for the side which most the XL Club by its performance on and off the field in 1991.
1986	They may be intent on each other or the chairman or involved in little power games to prove who is the real leader of the group.
1992	Tory win fails to advertisers
1992	As with Creature Comforts, Lowe Howard-Spink's work for Tesco, which won the campaign of the year in services, was deemed by some to be beyond its first flush of freshness, but its impact on consumer perceptions continues to .
1992	However, the grandeur of the occasion me and, as I was smaller than I am now, the boat seemed quite large.
1992	Radical dudes those bodacious babes by catching waves at Harvey Nicks and riding their planks all the way down to where Emporio Armani used to be.
1991	Everyone watched me, pleased that I seemed .
1991	Whether you are starting a new business, raising finance, or simply planning for profit and expansion,MBA Easiplan will help you create a well structured Business Plan, guaranteed to Bankers, Investors or business colleagues.
1990	‘Your swearing doesn't me one bit,’ she said, turning her head aside to avoid a kiss.
1990	Neither her.
1990	‘Apparently we have someone to .’
1988	It the passengers most satisfactorily.
1988	I didn't to his eyes appear sufficiently .
1988	The owner of Redi-Hot, who seemed to spend most of his time reading a guide book, told Mr and Mrs Wordmaster, who looked suitably , that Thunder Bay, one of Canada's largest ports, was at the far west end of the St Lawrence-Great Lakes seaway and should really be called what the locals called it, The Lakehead.
1992	?
1992	So, what better way to your guests than for them to receive a beautifully crafted and colour themed wedding invitation designed exclusively for Wedding and Home readers.
1992	When he's trying to you or your family, he may do all sorts of things he wouldn't dream of doing after the wedding.
1992	Tangy and crisp with a fruity flavour we quite liked this one, although we were less than with the look of the bottle.
1991	The ancient Greek concept of diet had us both.
1992	The panel were both surprised and with the range, quality and value for money of the sample selection that we tasted.
1989	The idea was to into the memory of the young people the exact location of the boundary.
1989	In some places the young people had the boundaries upon their person as well as their memories, by being physically bumped against the ground or bent over stones and beaten.
1991	Either Sir Charles had forgotten what Jed did, or else nobody had bothered to tell him, because he now leaned forwards and, , it seemed, by Jed's ingenuity and verve, said, ‘Perhaps, young man, you should come and work for me.’
1991	He wanted Creed to be amused, even.
1991	Helen, 45, audiences with her roles in The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, Cal and The Long Good Friday .
1990	This sudden fame and disturbed the whole school, including the teachers, who called Charlie ‘Girlie’.
1990	The key to Mum and Auntie Jean, and the best way to keep their tongues off the risible subject of my loin-cloth, which inevitably had them quaking with laughter, was to introduce them to the actors afterwards, telling them which sit-coms and police programmes they'd seen them in.
1990	But with Pyke to in the audience we had good reason to spring energetically over the scaffolding.
1991	Not to gain extra marks in the test and certainly not to your friends!
1991	They are often not very confident (however they may appear) and always want to their friends by their unpleasant exploits, so that they feel wanted and accepted by the in-crowd — just like Herod.
1991	‘Dearest Belinda’ er…, no, I know, Belinda's  into poetry; it'd really her if I made my note into a poem!
1987	Now, aren't you ?’
1989	Nothing had been done to prettify the site as at Sizewell, on the Suffolk coast, or to produce the pleasantly laid-out grounds of smooth lawn, flowering trees and shrubs which so agreeably him on his periodic visits to Winfrith in Dorset.
1989	He gazed round the sitting room at the long wall of books, the crackling wood fire, the oil of the Victorian prelate above the mantelshelf as if deliberately each item on his mind, then sank into his chair and stretched out his long legs with a small grunt of satisfaction.
1992	We thoroughly enjoy Dogs Today and try to pass on all the right things to do to our present scallywag, Monty, but he's not .
1992	Dogs Today's most talented dog star, Emma, the crowd with her routine of tricks, and as for the singing dogs — read about that elsewhere!
1979	In the meantime, until this can be achieved, if you are worried that your parent is not receiving proper medical attention you should start to make a polite nuisance of yourself by frequent visits to the surgery to upon the doctor the fact that you consider there is real cause for concern about the state of her health and ask if he could arrange for a ‘second opinion’.
1992	Cameron, but evidently rather baffled, minuted that he approved of the proposals and found them ‘entirely in accord with what we wanted and what I thought was being practised’.
1992	Uninterested in material things, and conspicuously more at home in jungles than in drawing rooms, he possessed a sweet distinction of bearing which itself on all who met him.
1992	Lugard, in his Political Memoranda , employed the words of Henry Lawrence to upon his officers the importance of constant travel among the people, and like him selected his administrators from among the military, believing that their training had taught them, as no other could, the proper exercise of responsibility.
1992	For most sources the capacitor could probably be removed as any reasonable signal will not have any d.c. upon it.
1991	It is a large church for what has always been a small village — perhaps the work of some medieval lord of the manor intent on the neighbouring gentry.
1987	However, during all those years of ‘cut your carbohydrates’ advice, which itself so much on the British public that many people are still overwhelmed with guilt at the sight of a slice of bread or a potato, all high-carbohydrate foods were grouped together as culprits in causing this rebound hunger which led to excessive eating.
1992	?
1991	On the day that his master and mistress were due back from London, he was determined to have as much as possible completed, in order to Stephen with the amount done during his absence.
1991	A cold ball will also have a harder feel at impact and will fly lower because of the relative inability of the clubface to it.
1991	But while Hogan and Snead , I was even more impressed with the international atmosphere.
1992	How often have you been lost for words when engaged in the ‘what sort of strings do you use’ type of conversation with a newly acquired guitar playing chum you're eager to ?
1992	But it wasn't just Tyson's playing credentials and Satriani's say so that original members Dan Arlie and Eric Valentine.
1992	Having the bass world with their Buzz basses in particular, Pedulla have introduced a new range, the Thunderbass T-series.
1992	Touched and , I was!
1992	And, believe us, before three cups of tea on a Monday morning, we are not very easily .
1992	So what us so much?
1992	‘I can remember Brian May once saying something that really me, because it explained something in a good way.
1992	Korg's A2 Performance Signal Processor has everyone here, and I'd be surprised if it's not destined to be the one that others are judged by.
1992	Overlooking details like the visual incongruity of the rectangular '50s radio-set control panel set into the smooth, undulating curves of the Golden, and indeed the general decorative overkill, this is a lovely guitar, with an uncanny ability to and delight.
1992	He could walk out and just be so good and that is probably the thing that most me about him.
1992	I thought he was the highlight of that particular event and Jan has also a certain Mr Satriani, who sang his praises in a Guitarist interview recently.
1992	What really me about players is having a unique sound, whether it's fast or slow.
1992	I mean, would you think you were anyone by telling them you play an ST-02-3X?
1992	She seemed most , and said that I should meet her boyfriend who was looking for a bass player, and so I joined his jazz-rock band back in 1973 and we did some touring in Britain.
1992	The majority of Danes asking ‘Geoff Who?’ were soon enlightened and by the end of the evening there was hum of comment about this tasteful guitarist with a tone that would Peter Green himself!
1984	People talk for all sorts of reasons — to express emotions, to ‘let off steam’, to other people, to be the life and soul of the party to instruct and inform.
1991	Wanting to her, Dustin bought a suit for their first date and, on the second date, they went to the beach.
1987	Second, there is personal experience of homoeopathy through having been treated by a homoeopathic doctor, or through having had a member of the family so treated, and being by the results.
1987	As applied to water, they are visualized as being particular polywater formations which have the power to their pattern on the surrounding water polymers.
1987	The presence, in a volume of water, of even one such cellular automaton would be enough to the pattern on the whole of that body of water.
1991	‘We did our house for ourselves, not to others,’ says Bill.
1991	Julie London shows you how to dress your table to
1990	It is always wise to look towards those who inspire and you.
1991	Johnny Macklow?’ said Daisy, .
1992	You've seen some kites, they've you and now you want one for yourself.
1992	T.V., alas, no more .
1990	I only did it to that lot.
1991	Being honest about our motivation is crucial since, at this stage, we might discover that it is not our own Dream at all, or that our motivation is somewhat dubious: ‘It will my friends’, ‘It will be one in the eye for my parents’, ‘It will ease my sense of guilt’, ‘It will make me feel more secure’, ‘It will give me power over other people’, ‘It will make me feel special’, ‘It's what my partner keeps suggesting I do’, ‘It's the opposite of what my partner suggests I do.’
1987	He would drive round his home village for a couple of weeks, his family and friends with the car, cigars and drinks and pick his future wife.
1990	He tried not to look as he slid gingerly across the cream leather of the  front seat.
1990	Kenneth them where I had failed, and our room was upgraded to a suite as soon as he laid the lardy accent on them.
1991	The ‘Birds were due to play, but thanks to ‘the wrong kind of snow’ or something erm, didn't), a tired and emotional GRAHAM from BLUR, JUSTIN from SPITFIRE and BOBBY GILLESPIE, who, frankly, no-one when he turned up surrounded by a bevy of rock lovelies, swanned through onto the T&C balcony, watched Nick C for a full 12 seconds and then swanned back out again.
1992	‘It's a long way from the back streets of Brixton to the green fields of Huntingdon,’ he on the county set.
1992	But he had always failed to the grown-ups in Never Never Land: the ones who handed out the end-of-term prizes, and the folk who decided which movies were important and meaningful , as opposed to escapist fun for all the family.
1992	Steven decided that if he couldn't come up with a definitive artistic statement to the grown-ups, then at least he could them with the definitive bank statement.
1992	Yet in the middle years of the Thatcher government, I recall Sir Geoffrey Howe telling me how he was by the number of letters he was receiving, especially from young people, about the crisis in the third world.
1992	What emerges in Howard Davies' production is a Shaw played for laughs, dressed to , and similarly short on ideas.
1992	At the ceremony, held at the Grosvenor House Hotel in Park Lane on Tuesday, the judges said they were particulary by the ‘clarity and passion’ of Saeeda's writing.
1992	This is her idea for on the audience how the powerless feel.
1970	The Soldier in Book iv of The Prelude is an example of Wordsworth performing a Good Samaritan act; but what Wordsworth and remains with us is the description of the Soldier's appearance:
1984	Her house was full of bead curtains and reproduction furniture — a fact which me so much I thought for a long time that Reproduction was a period like Jacobean and Elizabethan.
1985	Ryle points out that in being by the certainty of the seen and the known, one is assuming that seeing and knowing are analogous with looking and thinking, so that it becomes a problem how they escape the fallibility of these operations; he invites us to shift ‘see’ and ‘know’to the category of achievement verbs such as‘find’and ‘cure’, which are related to ‘seek ‘and ‘treat’as ‘see’and ‘know’to ‘look’and ‘think’, but do not tempt us to suppose that there are infallible methods of discovering lost articles or restoring to health.
1991	Gimbert and Moscato failed to that afternoon.
1991	But what most viewers of the deliberations at Thomond Park was the crisp passing of the Garrowen backs when the opportunity arose for spreading the ball wide, something that doesn't often occur in local derbies at Thomond Park.
1991	Grizz Wyllie — not .
1991	The assistant coach to Fitzgerald, Gerry Murphy, who the players on the New Zealand tour, immediately travelled to Australia after the tour, crossing the Tasman Sea at the request of the IRFU to have a look at the coaching structures in Australia.
1991	It will be noted they provided the bulk of the players for the Canadian side which so against France and New Zealand in the World Cup .
1987	Now she pleased Miss Beard by opening her eyes wide and looking suitably .
1980	In November 1642 Ford led a small force of hastily locals on a rapid march to attack Lewes.
1980	Until the formation of the highly disciplined Cromwellian New Model Army in 1645 both sides relied essentially on unwilling locals as troops, usually the tenants and labourers of the participating gentry.
1989	Swallow your principles and try to on a potential employer, especially if it is a small business, that you have arrangements for all eventualities, including if your child is sick.
1989	If he needed external ratification his lifestyle would be more designed to .
1990	Any observant traveller who moves from the snow-tipped Himalayas in the North to the sun-soaked sands of Cape Comorin at India's southern tip, will encounter — particularly in the rural areas and at sacred centres of pilgrimage wherever Siva, God of both Divine Wisdom and regeneration, is the presiding Deity — the serpent motif sculptured within shrines, on myriads of stone implants in the ground and depicted in art.
1992	Started in 1979 as an amateur effort to amuse and his friends, Viz's lavatorial schoolboy humour appealed to so many people that the Newcastle-based cult comic grew into Britain's third highest selling magazine.
1992	The film also James Lewis, 23, from Leatherhead, Surrey, who looks after the disabled.
1992	Alternatives: Two other obscure reds that will your friends are Safeway's Romanian Special Reserve Cabernet Sauvignon (£2.69), or Waitrose's fabulous Chilean Vina Carmen Cabernet Sauvignon Gran Seleccion at £3.95.
1992	Despite the super hero's millions of fans, including Macaulay Culkin and General Norman Schwarzkopf, Mario isn't that by his namesake.
1992	Britannia is used during the Queen's visits abroad in the hope that its 39-year-old Clyde-built quality will export customers.
1992	He has as stand-in for the injured Tommy Wright.
1992	But he has Clough and his coaching staff.
1992	Injury has ruled out the current incumbent at No 10, Llanelli's Colin Stephens, leaving his two biggest rivals the chance to selectors.
1992	Ojomoh, a superbly gifted all-round athlete, soon his games master and, at 13, was sneaked into the rugby XV.
1992	Filan, who carries an Irish passport, has been working at Saints with former England goalkeeping coach Mike Kelly after failing to Lou Macari during a week's trial at Stoke.
1992	That immediately poses the question of why the TCCB opted to concentrate on the Test nations with large financial guarantees, instead of copying the logical example of the sub-Continent and targetting the associates?
1992	It's an ominous warning which gives his players an extra incentive to against the Londoners tonight.
1992	Hill knows the old and new Williams cars inside out and vastly Prost not only for his technical expertise, but also his driving talent in testing at Estoril last week.
1992	Brave Piper took the seventh round on my card, while drawing three others, and English judge Mickey Vann to make him a round up going into the climatic 11th, which made a joke of Piper's manager Frank Warren having objected to Vann as a judge.
1992	But Eubank had only harsh words for Piper saying: ‘The only thing that me about him was that you could see he was thinking about what he was doing.
1992	But George, calmly, will on him how he is part of a team and the profound effect his actions are having on the success of the club.
1992	But George and Arsenal can upon Wright the harm he is doing his own career.
1992	Hill, who the team with his speed in a recent test session at Estoril, has agreed a one-year contract with a two-year option to partner Prost, who has won the world championship three times.
1992	Pascoe will come into the first team reckoning this weekend if he tonight in a reserve game.
1992	‘I was looking forward to a night out with the England Students squad on their training weekend at Bisham Abbey, but I won't say no to a bit of warm weather instead.’
1992	O'Leary is in his first season at Saracens, and England coach Dick Best when he scored on his debut for the London Divisional side against the Midlands earlier this month.
1989	And so was this man by the occasion that, having lived away from Curry Rivel for many years, he returned late in life to be re-married there — because of his cherished memories of the village in all its beauty on the day ‘Old Benny Titford’ was buried.
1983	The only feature of the original 36–45 which the Corporation, was the ‘Exhibition’ stairs with which they were equipped.
1990	In his letter asking Theo to come he mentioned a novel of Dickens,Hard Times , as one which had particularly him.
1990	This of course him.
1990	Language teachers, by the apparent authority of science, follow suit and try to teach by means of operant conditioning.
1993	Arguments that the UK enforces the rules of fair trade too scrupulously compared with its trade rivals do not Mr Sainsbury.
1992	In either case, an unauthorised practitioner will have committed a criminal offence under the Financial Services Act, and pleading that he did it only once or that it happened by accident is not going to anyone.
1992	We shall be continuing to that simple message on the Government.
1992	Given Peter Wood's background, it is scarcely surprising that Direct Line's computer systems .
1992	The world's fourth-biggest chemical company, with its 15,000 products and 600 locations worldwide, has not the stock market.
1992	I think they were all , although it may have been at the thought of Gran going camping!
1992	17 YEAR OLD BOY —‘For me it's a relief to be able to come here and not have to drink to my friends’.
1980	Joan Waters, too, was left in peace apart from the following two minor incidents which may have been attempts to upon her that she had not moved beyond the reach of the long arm of the undercover services.
1980	This was the theory that it kept a Long Kesh compound filled with loyalists as a propaganda exercise to observers outside Ulster that it was acting impartially towards both the British loyalist and the Irish republican community.
1980	Yours is one case I will always remember not for the large number of witnesses, but for the meeting of a man who right from the first his lawyers with his innocence a conviction that grew and grew the more that one went into the case and met the many people who knew Andy Beattie so well.’
1980	The concessions the public, but were worthless without a new policy decision at the same political level as the original one to re-introduce interrogation-in-depth techniques.
1992	One young man who me immensely was from Scunthorpe.
1992	They could not distinguish public splendour to dazzle and their people and foreigners alike (if that is the effect their trappings achieved) from the conveniences of private life.
1992	In their efforts to the United States, the Romanians went so far as to compare their position vis-à-vis the Kremlin with Cuba's in relation to Washington.
1992	A genuine working class origin must have the former Viscount Stansgate.
1992	The homage and cynical words of approval from foreign heads of state and politicians were ceaselessly recycled inside Romania to upon ordinary people how famous and how much admired their president had become.
1992	Together with his court architect, Albert Speer, the Führer had devised ‘ruin-theory’ which demanded that the great Nazi buildings should be designed to the observer even as ruins after thousands of years.
1981	His response is to upon them that the time is not now, that only God knows when it will be, and in the meantime they are to concentrate on the number-one task of world-wide witness for which the Holy Spirit would equip them (Acts 1:8).
1991	‘Who are we trying to ?’
1991	Kit looked at the statue of the Infant of Prague that she kept in the house to the mothers of the students who boarded with her.
1992	Then the scary concave wall and overhangs taken by Bow Wall can't fail to .
1992	The white coated physio seems .
1992	This me, for there is nothing more penetrating than snow and slush.
1992	The next step — and this is the one the BMC wanted to most forcefully on our visitors — is to terrify yourself on some dripping mass of rock devoid of adequate protection.
1980	In general, what lenders told us about their procedures for deciding for or against a loan (or other credit advance) on us the care with which they try to avoid turning away potential sound customers, After all, making their own requirements too strict would limit their business too narrowly.
1991	I had been allocated an efficient back-up team from the Civil Service: Jane Benham (promoted near the end and replaced by Martin Howarth), Michael Phipps and Jenny Bacon, all of whom me with their loyalty to me and their diplomatic skills.
1990	The complaint was a ritual, not to be taken seriously, a mere habitual statement made solely to on me how tough McIllvanney was.
1992	GUYS — having trouble the ladies?
1992	And when you're trying to the opposite sex, a foot-long bundle of foliage might just not cut it.
1992	That said, it's still the graphics that the most: the colours are deeper and sharper than before, the action faster.
1992	The water is freezing and there are no bikini-clad girls ti , but winter in Cornwall sees the surfing hardcore come into its own.
1992	Its show combined adventure, innovation and fun with the important wearability factor, and only the blinkered did not leave .
1988	If Niki had sought to Prost with a victory at the very start of the season, the ploy didn't work: an improperly soldered battery cable put him out of action and it was Prost who .
1987	He began to see the grounds as a possession , the gardens as something to others, the orchard and walled fruit-garden as places that would produce delicious food.
1987	He had been better able to tolerate it ten years ago, but then he had drunk  alcohol to be like other people and to , not because he liked it.
1990	So next day I duly went to the synagogue, rather self-conscious in my trilby hat, surprised to find women sitting in the gallery only, much with the singing of the cantor and the blowing of the ram's horn, and a little taken aback by the quick exit at the end of the fast, presumably to get back home for the first square meal of the day.
1990	But the thing that me most was the friendship between the rabbi and the rector.
1989	They are still trying to persuade you that Palatine really needs Anglo-Welsh, and  they are evidently prepared to spend vast amounts of their shareholders' money on national advertising to you.
1971	She enjoyed the opportunity of the president of the Lady Queen Bees.
1971	Her name would probably appear in the newspaper twice within two days, since she was to deliver the main report to the Morals Committee; and that should really both friends and enemies.
1971	He wondered how he had found sufficient courage to ask her to the Edwardian Ball, and then remembered that it was her air of calm dignity which had made him anxious to take her to his parents.
1987	This extract from Overdrive's brochure is bound to a potential customer.
1987	This offer failed to GFT and, having taken some informal advice from their company solicitors on winding-up procedures, instructed the local firm of Sam Sword and Spade, debt collectors, to serve a formal notice demanding payment of the outstanding £1250 (see below).
1989	He all of us.
1989	Thirdly, it was not just the bald declarations of innocence that me, but the nature and quality of those declarations: there were passages in both books which, as in Meehan's letters to me, had the sharp ring of truth.
1989	You will no doubt be dazzled by the flashing neon lights and by the crowds, the bustling traffic, the tall Victorian and Georgian buildings, the red buses and black taxis.
1989	There can be no doubt that this claim has many as an important reason why his views should not only be taken seriously but accepted as true.
1991	There was a new cook and he was determined to .
1983	with Moss's memory, Doyle nodded his head slowly.
1990	because a bloody long bonnet doesn't
1989	They all wanted to maintain peace, and they were all committed to defending Polish independence, a point which Bevin, on Lloyd George's behalf, on Soviet diplomats in London —‘his first experience of diplomacy’, A. J. P. Taylor remarks, with characteristic acerbity, ‘but unfortunately not his last.’
1991	Meredith was suddenly swept up in an insane desire to , well, produce something decent.
1990	Out-of-town businessmen use our facilities, especially when they wish to important clients.’
1981	At first I would go for short walks, lasting perhaps half an hour, and then return to bed sufficiently with my own daring to be able to relax into sleep.
1991	Sub-text : ‘I need to .’
1991	They are talking a language we probably do not understand, and which they hope will us and befuddle us and increase their status.
1991	When you tell her you're a doctor, she looks .
1991	This isn't the same as being popular or the bosses.
1992	Despite her early film success with Desperately Seeking Susan, Madonna has more with her enthusiasm than ability in movies such as Shanghai Surprise, Who's That Girl? and Dick Tracy.
1992	Conglomerate Hanson, strongly dependent on recovery in the US market, is unlikely to with year-end figures down 17% to £1.09bn., with the dividend rise for the year put at 1% to 11.1p.
1992	HOLLYWOOD heart-throb Tom Cruise picked up the bill for a group of students he saw trying to their girlfriends.
1992	But he so bosses they asked him to apply for the more senior post of general marketing director.
1992	Their replacements, Frederick Smit and Piet Pretorius, settled in quickly but it was surprising that Midlands didn't move England's Martin Bayfield from the middle to the front of the lineout, where Drikus Hattingh with a succession of clean two-handed catches.
1992	Hirst aims to
1992	So was the forward-thinking Murray with the two games against Leeds that he wants to speed up the introduction of a British Cup.
1992	by the all-round excellence of Springbok No 8 Adriaan Richter, England reacted by giving Bath's Ben Clarke another crack at him on Saturday, and by recalling Mike Teague at blindside for his first international since the World Cup final.
1992	Surprise French leaders Nantes despite drawing 1–1 at home to Sochaux.
1992	Maguire's remarkable exploits rightly grabbed most of the headlines, but Fitzgerald as a horseman of the highest quality with 38 successes from limited opportunities.
1992	The son of a humble bookbinder, he had Cape coloured cricket's most famous overseas ambassador Basil D'Oliveira as 14-year-old.
1992	Broom West Ham recently during a week's trial but said: ‘I haven't heard anything more.
1992	Rovers Big Mal
1992	Wright was substituted against Norway, having lost his way after missing a good chance, but Taylor said: ‘He deserves another go, but I must on him not to get so uptight if one gets away.
1992	John quick to
1992	I just hope he doesn't try too hard to .
1992	Dropped by England for the recent Tests against Canada and South Africa, Probyn has responded by helping Wasps to the top of the Courage League and colleagues and opponents alike.
1990	Needless to say, this argument Peron greatly.
1990	This sort of application of test-tube fusion also Indian Government scientists who decided that the western nations would soon classify test-tube fusion as a secret; thus India mounted an immediate test-tube fusion research effort so as to ‘get in on the ground floor’.
1990	There is no simple guide as to how many publications committees the most.
1991	Nigel was almost as with the fireplace as I had been, and really it inspired a feeling that was almost reverent.
1991	Looked at in this light, and with conservation so constantly upon us, I really can't see that the idea could be so shocking.
1990	(A third possible explanation is that the whole story was made up, to unbelievers, by the apostle Matthew or whoever wrote the gospel ascribed to him.
1990	It didn't make any noise, but it seemed to be the humans no end.
1991	He had hoped to her, and, though I knew this was the wrong way to go about it, since she was always embarrassed by emotional arguments, when she replied in a stiff, rather guarded way, I was deeply hurt on his behalf.
1991	But he was not discontented now: we had been in Fe– two days and he was airing his local knowledge to Flora, who had just arrived.
1991	Louise asked, .
1991	Nora was not nearly so by that sort of thing as her cousin but she admitted to herself that it was unlikely a man from such a background would be deceiving Constance.
1993	Andy Partner and Paul Flowers, regular central defenders in the youth team, thus have a chance to in the friendly fixture at Chelmsford City on Saturday (3 pm kick-off at New Writtle Street) with a view to being involved in the Cardiff and more especially the Carlisle clash.
1993	This time last year the Witches were interested in Miroslaw Kowalik, a youngster who in a training camp held at Mildenhall but who had too many Polish commitments to be considered in 1992.
1993	His gallops have always me but after a couple of disappointing runs on the flat his attentions were turned to the all-weather surfaces.
1993	England concede initiative as Tufnell fails to
1993	He last year on his rare appearances in the first team and is highly rated.
1993	Stewart made just one error with the gloves on a day of sweat and toil — failing to hold a difficult leg-side catch offered by Aravinda DeSilva on 74 off Devon Malcolm — but also with the handling of his bowlers.
1988	The eagerness with which the boy sought for knowledge, however, so his schoolmaster that he continued to teach him without a fee; then, through Hooker's uncle who was Chamberlain of Exeter, he persuaded John Jewel, Bishop of Salisbury, to pay for him to study at the latter's old college of Corpus Christi at Oxford.
1988	A die for sheet metal with Style II ornament was found at Barton-on-Humber (Lincolnshire) with a set of weights and a balance (Capelle and Vierck 1971) and other dies are known from Salmonby (Lincolnshire), two from Suffolk and there is an example from Salisbury (Wiltshire)(ibid.), all of seventh-century date.
1990	Your Rover Dealer will show you the car that's the press so much.
1990	Robust and reliable, Gib'Sea yachts those who know with their straightforward design, sturdy construction and excellent finish.
1990	However, when Anne Wright came to Sunderland from Merseyside, it was not only the quality of life that , but also the quality of light.
1991	The appointment of Li Peng to the post of Premier at the congress did not the student protesters.
1992	There is little public support and possession arrest no longer lads in the canteen.
1992	Nicolette's fusion of banging bass and meandering, torchy vocals — spiced with American blues and African music influences — has been people since she was signed by north London's Shut Up And Dance in 1990.
1992	Are you ?’
1991	He'd done all this for his parents, particularly for his father, whose dedication to his children had always Peter and moved him deeply.
1991	Meditate on the words of Paul in Ephesians 4:17–29, asking the Holy Spirit to upon your mind where  he wants you to make changes to co-operate with him in this work of transformation.
1991	As we discovered in Part One, many of the initiators of conflict in later life are learned and upon us at this vital period.
1991	However, when our car was serviced at a small back-street garage which we had never tried before, what really us was not only the mechanical quality of the service, but the extra care taken.
1991	with the performance of N185, Air Ministry officials decided to order four Iris Mk 111s for RAF service.
1992	Both Andy Saunders and Peter Dimond the writer with the depth of vision they hold about what TMAM faces in the future and the exact definition of the path it needs to take.
1992	Two thirds of men say they choose their ties to their wife or girlfriend
1992	The great news is, they're THE hippest accessory of the minute so if you've got something to hide AND want to your friends, fake it in fabulous style!
1992	The lady was not two with my old machine, insisting that all her knitters had Jones+Brother 585 machines.
1991	by the form of the material sciences, Althusser follows Engels in comparing the development of Marx's ‘science’ with the development of the discovery of oxygen by Lavoisier and the relationship between the planets and the sun by Galileo.
1990	This office was expensive in a subtly ostentatious way, minimalist but designed to the discerning.
1992	Antonia went to great lengths to her ministerial lover.
1992	The Texan wanted to him to clinch a business deal.
1992	But less than six months later he fought back with a Commons performance that the House and Prime Minister Harold Wilson…
1992	At the Home Office, he opponents and civil servants alike by the way he piloted intensely complex Bills through Parliament.
1992	And every winner will also get a stylish Shamen bag to their pals.
1992	McMENEMY:
1992	And Preki, 29, on his debut in the Coca Cola Cup defeat at Rotherham on Wednesday.
1992	Bruce was the first United man to be cautioned and later McClair and Hughes followed him, but Torpedo's histrionic reaction to the visitors' tackling rarely referee Jan Dangaard.
1992	Kevin Brock, like Quinn a target for Portsmouth boss Jim Smith, slid the ball in from 14 yards to watching scouts.
1992	The Thelma & Louise star, then a sales assistant, a talent spotter who snapped her up for a stage role.
1992	And Fred, 28 — who topped the charts with ‘I'm Too Sexy’— seemed quite by it.
1992	‘Johnny enjoyed using Fergie's name to other women.
1992	And he said: ‘When she's got problems of her own yet takes time out to do this, it leaves me tremendously .
1992	Clough said: ‘Gary has me very much in the month he has spent with us so far.
1992	But I'll always take a chance with players if I think they are right, and this lad really me.’
1992	Astrac Trio, Norton's other Florida purchase last August, obliged at Southwell recently and Celestial Key Kevin Darley by wearing down favourite Blow Dry inside the final furlong.
1992	He's a number of Premier League managers but Venables will be the first to make a move.
1992	Tikva, a 26-year-old Israeli, has on trial at the City Ground with the Belgian club pricing him at £500,000.
1989	Richard Burton apart, you starred with many leading actors — who has you the most?
1989	So in order to her I made a speech and it apparently did her because I'm married to her now.
1993	Alan looked .
1993	Certainly I'd myself.
1993	‘Raindown’ again because of the newly-found POD focus, its guitars taking time to breathe and plan their next assault, while Craig's voice breaks away from its usual comparisons and finds its own piece of sky to lark about in.
1991	I've seen evidence of his denouncing racial prejudice in others, and it greatly me.
1991	Now's your chance to your friends when they come over to your cardboard box.
1991	Gannets amaze and me every time I see them.
1986	Dusk was falling swiftly, as it always does in the tropics, and the silence that had so me by daylight suddenly became noisy with the night life of the jungly-type trees in the mountains behind-the bull frogs, strange bird cries, the never-ending background of the cicadas.
1986	So to him I told him briefly of the four stages of polio — first the porodomal, second the muscle pain, then the period of muscle destruction which usually took no longer than fourteen days, and finally the period of repair.
1992	Which feats have you the most?
1992	What me in Messner is the combination he has of immense boldness and analytical power.
1991	‘Really?’ said Tommy's mother, sounding .
1989	Eager to build on the positive response to the earlier guide-lines, and to on employers their collective responsibilities in assisting returners to practise safely, the UKCC put forward the following proposals for consideration:
1992	STEVE BACHOP , the Western Samoan outside-half who so much in the World Cup, is back for his second successive season with the Dublin club,Blackrock College .
1988	Wiser heads, by the scale and intensity of working-class militancy in  a single region and recognizing that an ill-timed coup might merely provoke rather than prevent a nationwide revolution of the left, placed their faith in subtler tactics.
1988	Thirdly, Franco and advisers such as his brother-in-law, Ramón Serrano Suñer, looking ahead to a post-war Spain and by Italian and German precedents, were becoming increasingly attracted to the idea of a single-party and perhaps even totalitarian state.
1992	This was my first visit to the line and apart from being by the set-up I felt a genuine warmness from everyone I spoke to.
1990	despite herself, Tabitha watched him closely.
1992	His new found maturity on and off the court is many and diluting the controversial image he has carried with him since turning professional four years ago.
1992	Your stringer should be able to explain these terms and more — and understanding some of the stringers' buzz words can be useful, even if it's just to your friends.
1986	It was extraordinary how many details simultaneously themselves on Dalgliesh's  mind.
1992	, POSITIVE
1982	He had no thought of me or anyone else for that matter.
1991	Little has been written on the subject since then, but one may infer from the few remarks that are made on it that psychologists are no longer so by ‘the insuperable logical difficulty’ James believed there to be in the way of saying that the difference between sensations may be one of ‘place pure and simple’.
1991	So if I have associated the right word — say, the word blue — with the right impression — the impression I get when I look at a cornflower — there is no fear of my language not mirroring reality as there is if I talk about fate or fortune , these not being words for simple ideas on my mind by external objects.
1991	The older generation tends to believe in such dishes as health cures, aphrodisiacs or a source of physical and mental strength, while the prosperous young order them to their friends.
1991	To and drive away lesser males, the harem bull develops a darker coat and a swollen neck.
1991	This terrifying face has evolved to .
1992	And Steve Albini — slightly abrasive, direct and not one to compromise just to people — is here in this studio to remaster everything for the reissues.
1992	TOMATO CONTINUE to with a pair of releases that may be label mates but, in relationship to each other, go no further than holding hands.
1992	Cosloy, , invited the band over to play at this summer's New Music Seminar in New York, where they pulled apart the Knitting Factory with a glorious show that proved to be one of the most talked about of the week.
1992	After ‘Wish You Were Here’, Pink Floyd had shot their finest bolt and the socially condemning ‘Animals’ and ‘The Wall’(both of which sounded more like vehicles for Waters' psychiatrist couch rantings) still fail to .
1992	Another body which agrees with Rutherford is the Irish Union which, while keen to simplify ‘the line-out jungle’, does not seem with the quick throw-in concept.
1992	Plucked out of school rugby by the current All Black assistant coach, Ellis has with his ability and polished skills.
1992	Coleby looked .
1986	Favourably .
1986	‘I mean were you suitably .’
1991	The hints he had thrown out, that he was connected in some illegitimate way with the Hamilton family, could be dismissed as a typical lie told to , another Cape Horn.
1992	Jim was keen to that it was not a scale model of anything but a real small narrow gauge locomotive in its own right.
1992	Of the rest, Anke Huber the most.
1992	But most of all, I wasn't at all with the absence of Monica Seles.
1993	The scattering of maps is random and often difficult to read, but it is the only catalogue to illustrate a Chacmool in the supine position with head turned that Henry Moore.
1982	by the slave's apparent physical prowess, Percy took ‘Bill Richmond’ under his tutelage and groomed him for prize fighting.
1989	He Meredith Jones as he Philip Burton — both to an extent that they had never been impressed before, driving them to help him help himself.
1989	Mime (in Les Misérables), a big leading role  (Professor Higgins), a virtuoso turn (as an American businessman in Youth At The Helm , he had everyone by talking into five telephones at once— everybody in Taibach talked about it: Cis heard accounts ‘up and down the street’), work on the radio and, above all, those scrupulous sessions in Ma Smith's front room and on the high hills, schoolteacher and pupil, two sons of miners in Wales, striving to speak the language of Shakespeare faultlessly.
1989	He startled Philip with him, so Emlyn Williams with a recitation on a London street in a blackout that Williams could recall it precisely forty years later, and introduced anybody he thought would appreciate it to the dark-vowelled, consonant-cracking language of the man whose most famous work would be Under Milk Wood , whose first performance — on radio and stage — would star Richard Burton.
1991	This he could recite without the book, a poem of Wilfred Owen's which he had into the minds of every one of his pupils in Battle Creek.
1992	If the players really you with their heckling and barracking of the puppets (and they'll have to be witty as well as abusive), the puppets will eventually break off their performance, perhaps concluding with an important tip about a major location within the dungeons (if the players did exceptionally well).
1992	‘The thing that most me and most encourages my students when I use Streamline is that Streamline is an audiovisual course.
1991	For the most part, however, Elizabethans  preferred to be remembered for their ancestry and achievements rather than for their piety, and in order to succeeding generations of parishioners, they incorporated into their monuments inscriptions, heraldic devices, and portraits of themselves in their lavish official robes.
1991	Alongside whatever direct impact petitions had on MPs, some printed material and very particular kinds of evidence were channelled straight to parliamentarians — especially the results of quantifying aspects of the slave trade and slavery and the direct testimony of witnesses whose authenticity was expected to .
1991	‘Hard’ evidence of a quantitative kind was never neglected by abolitionists since they appreciated that it was more likely to parliamentarians who were conscious of their role as ‘cool’arbiters of the national interest and who consequently distanced themselves from ‘enthusiasm’.
1991	In Liverpool William Rathbone extracted figures from the muster roles which Clarkson used as the basis for the statistics on mortality, disease and desertion amongst seamen engaged in the slave trade and which apparently the Privy Council committee.
1991	They did as much if not more for the internal cohesion of antislavery as in the outside world.
1991	The obvious questions for churchmen were how best to improve order within the church and how to the church upon society.
1989	Simulators can provide demonstrations which always visitors.
1991	The Committee's task was to make arrangements for a congress of all those interested in union, to Europe with the vitality and necessity of the cause, and to seek some institutional structures of a European organisation.
1989	Occasionally the proprietors of some of the quality houses would comment on the successful inclusion of travel films in the programme as it was thought that this would the casual respectable trade but far more common was the exhibitor who reported a hostile response to short films dealing with ‘industrial’ subjects.
1989	What was most disastrous about the educated response to American and British cinema was the way in which good movies or movies that had were conveniently forgotten.
1989	To film a well-known book was a sure way to the respectable classes and to attract new patrons from the reading public and the familiarity of the title generally helped in exploitation.
1989	With The Big Parade Vidor won new friends for American films  but what had MGM was that the film made money and also pointed to the way in which romance would be coupled with broader themes; there was obviously no harm in indulging Vidor a little.
1991	In typical Hughes fashion, the machine was not flown from 1939 to 1947, initially defying the US Army to it.
1988	The features that these employers about the spare/part-time jobs of young people applying for apprenticeships in their firms were mainly elements which were absent in WE schemes.
1967	The Magyar example itself much the Irish; in 1904 a Sinn Fein leader published a book on The Resurrection of Hungary .
1989	Much recent research has focused on the degrees of co-operation and collusion between the mass media and those with the power to their own definitions of the world onto the practices of news organizations.
1991	At the next table, the black African diplomat was  the girl he was with.
1987	The interest of some countries, notably Romania, in a doctrine of ‘national defence’ has not Poland's military commanders any more than it has their Soviet patrons.
1987	A prime purpose of the Soviet Armed Forces is to move Soviet diplomacy along: to act as its complement or counterpoint, to intimidate, encourage and .
1991	It disarmed his opponents and the image the outside world.
1992	Several videos on less obvious techniques have also me this year.
1989	The competitive nature of public examinations was brutally brought home to me a few years ago when I was first by the instructional potential of programmed learning.
1991	She looked around the kitchen, .
1991	Nurse Walton looked suitably .
1993	Analysts, by results so far, think Zurich is well-placed to do both.
1993	But by themselves neither ‘new faces’ nor concessions, gestures and fancy phrases dressed up as ‘new measures’will .
1993	But it is also a lesson that Yucatan's businessmen and its state government have been trying to on investors from the United States — with controversial results.
1993	To argue with a Greek today is to experience the same mixture of exhilaration (because he is so full of ideas, so quick with logic) and exasperation (when he slides around awkward facts) that many a growlingly Roman experienced two millennia ago.
1992	His detachment the room.
1986	Minor revenue posts, and as in this case, even the location of rented office space, were one of the more effective methods of the members of a town council with what could be done for them, or to them.
1986	Lord Home ordered his agents in Scotland to seize Brown as soon as he landed and to upon him ‘what is very trew that if he oppose me he will dissoblige Prince Waldeck and all his officers’, and thus presumably ruin any chance which he might have of advancement.
1991	Holland was the country that him most:
1992	She wrote to the Director General, was invited to meet, and met, his Deputy, Harman Grisewood, who her with his sympathy for her concerns.
1992	And as the handmaid of religiosity, ritual's part was to express and those sentiments of group adherence on which the orderly life of the social organism depended for its survival.
1991	Frankly, he's a pain in the arse, but Martinez pays me a handsome amount of money and provides me with a very flashy car, which the likes of young Lindy over there, so who am I to argue?’
1993	Not everybody's with the P5-aka-Pentium.
1993	But it's the security features that serious LAN users.
1992	Kepler Wessels's young side will shine in the field, while Allan Donald, in an early warmup match at Perth, onlookers as being yards faster than Craig McDermott, the destroyer of India in the recent Test series.
1992	But it was as a young cricketer, distinctive even then with his fair complexion and blond hair (hence ‘Ghost’, years later), that he particularly his games master, John Kitson.
1992	There were a few diplomatic handshakes as the players left the field at the end, but it seemed a relief that an extra week lay between this Test match and the next, and it could only be hoped that work would continue behind the scenes to upon these cricketers, especially the more excitable ones, that the game does not deserve to be abused.
1992	What above all is the ‘tribal identity’ which clearly inspires the entire cricket movement in the area.
1993	‘We would have been interested in signing Czech rider Gaspar Forgac who us on Press Day.’
1993	But, thanks to a power-packed ride from Pat Eddery, Eurolink Thunder capturing the Laburnum Conditions Stakes and Captain Horatius in the Magnolia Stakes saw his third and fourth do the business.
1993	It is the latter argument which the Norwegian politicians.
1993	Recent climbdowns over next year's tests fail to Mr Brunt.
1982	It was the Josephite hierarchy which orchestrated the remarkable development of monarchic ideology which so Herberstein.
1991	The armed following that accompanied Robert the Frisian on his Jerusalem pilgrimage so the Emperor of Byzantium, Alexius Comnenus, with its martial bearing that he requested similar assistance from the west.
1991	As chief adviser to Louis VI in the last decade of his reign, and as Louis VII's most trusted minister until his death in 1152, he had many  opportunities to his theories on princes and lords who would not dare to scoff.
1991	While Raymond of Toulouse remained in Outremer, Stephen and Hugh disgraced themselves in escaping from the siege of Antioch, and Robert Curthose, no matter how gallant, at least in his lifetime failed to , Robert II's prestige soared to the skies.
1990	Nixon's advisers upon him that such a controversial figure could not be confirmed by an overwhelmingly Democratic congress.
1990	Given the widespread feelings of disillusionment abroad in 1976, Carter's strategy of offering himself as a new broom was electorally well judged, but if he the voters, his relentless and sanctimonious moralizing irritated and alienated legislators whose support he would eventually need.
1992	His form many during the ‘A’ team series with England last winter.
1992	This the members until it was discovered he had been stung by a bee!
1992	Peter Moores more with bat and gloves every time I clap eyes on him; Martin Speight is beginning to weld patience and big numbers to his undoubted ability and bottomless well of self-belief; and if a fractured ankle has set the seal on Adrian Jones's dispiriting season there has been consolation in the imposing shape of Ed Giddins.
1992	If you want to those beautiful beach babes, there's only one way.
1991	The pottery was as late as any in Roman Britain and even included one sherd thought to be ‘Romano-Saxon’ since it had on to it a Saxon type of stamp; however, the vessel was wheel-turned and clearly of Romano-British manufacture.
1974	In the first place, becoming a housewife them by the very openness of the role [?]and by the freedom they now have from constraining supervision…
1992	However, despite my indignation about the ignorant handling of the ceramics section, I came away excited and deeply by this show which should not be missed by anyone interested in modern art.
1986	He was respectful but unalarmed when the King appeared and after a moment's silence he chose to laugh at the likeness and the revelation that they were distant cousins; indeed, so little was Rassendyll that he noted that the King's mouth lacked ‘something of the firmness (or obstinacy) which was to be gathered from my close-shutting lips’.
1992	Enter Lucignano and one of the first things to immediately the first-time visitor is the peace and quiet of the town's narrow streets and alleyways.
1991	Seventeen year old Ian Vickers again all, winning three of the four super division events.
1989	He was determined to Benin.
1989	Rookies were all the same in the beginning, eager to please and desperate to be judged favourably by their superiors, but within the space of a few months they had become as bitter and cynical as the seasoned policemen they had been trying to .
1989	The reception area had obviously been designed to , with its mushroom-coloured Anton Plus carpet imported from America, its three-tiered Czechoslovakian glass crystal lights, its brown leather armchairs and its crushed velour curtains draped ornately on either side of the plate glass window facing directly out on to the car park.
1989	When he turned his first thought was that she too had been designed to .
1993	At a very early age the Spencer children had upon them the value of good manners, honesty and accepting people for what they are, not for their position in life.
1987	There is no way of telling how many of the episodes described are elaborations produced to , or how far they are accurate descriptions of action sequences on which both teachers and pupils would agree.
1989	There is a sundial over the door, dated 1751, and inscribed with the reminder ‘Time Passeth’— a concept which surely the young Tennyson and which he must have mused upon a length as a boy.
1989	At Kenwick woods, near Louth, there is a footpath through one of the loveliest sites on the eastern slopes of the wolds; where pines, beeches, poplars, limes and many other varieties of tree a gracious elegance amid the surrounding, intensely agricultural, rolling landscape .
1992	I suppose that you just can't help loving this crafty, gormless, dithering, impatient Dagenham boy done good who's made and apparently lost millions out of being a loveable loser, a part-time winner, with a bit of a chip on his shoulder, perpetually on the edge of panic, needing to much to .
1991	During turns little or no rudder is required to maintain balance, the elevators, rudder and ailerons are excellent and well harmonised and one would be very hard to please if the little bird failed to .
1976	Unlike many people since the end of the Second World War, Freud, writing in the late 1920s, remained with the progress made in the use of technology in improving man's life, although not unaware of the potential it had for destruction.
1976	Nor does it Freud to be told that religious propositions are ‘as if ’ types of proposition, and that one should live ‘as if ’it were true that there were gods, or God, for there is nothing to lose this way.
1992	It's an event which cannot fail to even the most cynical Cruella de Vil.
1992	This spontaneous gesture the doctor.
1992	When we think of Callas, we think of an incredible musician with an incredibly strong dramatic gift, but there have also been great voices in history and there are some orchestras which are successful with your understanding, at least, because they have this collective voice which you immediately.
1992	The comparison I have to hand is the 1962 Dorati on Mercury, which did not greatly AW last year.
1992	They me less in the beautiful central Andante in C minor: it needs expressive playing which should be poignant without overstepping the bounds of musical propriety that Mozart set himself, and here it sounds merely pleasing.
1992	By contrast, Oistrakh on Le Chant du Monde, though not entirely at home in the Gallic idiom, is far more subtle in inflexion and seems less determined to .
1992	If less as a ‘big’ personality she nevertheless has a vivid way of making the developments real and present: for example, at the start of the Act 2 solo, ‘que viens-je d'entendre?’, she conveys, still more than Baker, the sense of the overheard talk having happened a minute or two before.
1991	Among the more established bands, Four Idle Hands with the best songs of the weekend.
1991	Cassidys are in the process of upgrading everything but their prices (the whole outfit pictured above excluding shoes comes in at less than £50) and the travellers declared themselves seriously with the clothes, the balance of the models and the new shop design.
1989	In England, as has been shown, both Edward III and Richard II reacted to mercantile opinion expressed in Parliament by large numbers of ships for purposes of defence, such fleets at times employing almost as many soldiers at sea as did field armies on land, all at great expense.
1989	Royal officers, under the charge of admirals, were despatched to the ports with instructions to or requisition vessels for the king's use, whether this was to transport men, animals, or equipment across the sea.
1991	Oliver people.
1991	Who does he think he's ?
1991	The solvents listed above, you might care to know, make no on mouche excrement, so when confronted by this problem in your own home life use sputum or ammonia, and if that fails you must pick the droppings off with a scalpel.
1986	He was willing to take from the divergent policies of the Chinese and Russian parties whatever he deemed appropriate for success; he was inspired by Mao's mass mobilisation but equally by the authority and ruthless direction shown by Stalin.
1986	He added that he did wish, however, to upon the Department the importance which the Korean Government and people attached to their apparent exclusion from the defense plans of the United States in the Far East.
1986	MacArthur most of those who met him through his strengths of character, commitment and tenacity.
1991	It is evident that certain US officers were favourable by Vlasov; however, government policy called for the handing over of all renegade Russians to the Red Army.
1992	He was a quiet, wise, friendly man who ran his hall with a minimum of rules and regulations, treating undergraduates as adults and on them the need for courtesy and consideration in their dealings with one another, and with the domestic staff.
1988	It does not the reader and it may obscure the message.
1992	This Boulton so much that he asked Murdock to call again.
1989	It is even possible that Gloucester's claims of another plot against him were intended not only to justify Hastings' removal but to the council with the gravity of the situation and make them more disposed, not less, to back Gloucester's leadership as the one hope of stability in a worsening political climate.
1991	Any unobliterated postage or revenue stamp valid for current use in the British postal area or elsewhere (except a revenue stamp embossed or on an instrument which has been executed).
1991	Any postage or revenue stamp that is not defaced valid for current use in the British postal area or elsewhere (except a revenue stamp embossed or on an instrument which has been executed).
1980	In the twenties, both in England and in America, we have a situation in which the infant and child mortality rates are fast declining, mainly owing to new advances in medical knowledge; at the same time, the world's values have been shaken by the First World War, writers and journalists have both more freedom and more inclination than ever before to discuss religion from an agnostic point of view, and the vengeful God of heaven and hell no longer in quite the old way.
1991	John was impressed with the state of affairs at Toddington but even more with the enthusiasm of the volunteers who like their counterparts on other preserved lines keep the wheels turning.
1986	William Morton Pitt of Kingston Maurwood, MP for Dorset and a relative of the two famous Prime Ministers ‘with the beauty of the situation of Swanwich and the salubrity of its climate, and finding the shore of smooth fine sand to be admirably adapted for sea bathing, first conceived the idea of raising it to the condition of a watering place’.
1990	Thus the question which confronts Christian feminists — how should they deal with the fact that the basic symbol of their religion is that of a male Christ — does not really her.
1990	(A character, in Catholic Aristotelian theology, is a similitude or image by another.)
1991	Mobuto's address to the General Assembly had him.
1990	Johnnie Armstrong, distinguished from others of that surname by the to-name of Black Jock, dressed himself up in all his finery and rode with fifty of his best men to meet the  king in Teviotdale, obviously hoping to him as a near equal.
1990	Instead of being , James was mightily displeased.
1988	‘Often at loggerheads with Holyoake, Greening, Hughes and other advocates of the ‘'bonus to labour’ and the development of Co-operative Production by means of independent Societies under producers' control, he was able to his personal philosophy of Co-operation upon the Movement and to win for himself a position of recognised leadership.’
1989	Pham Van Dong in Paris, as well as Giap in Hanoi, had a comparable distrust of French intentions and, since elections of a kind had been held in January 1946, the Vietminh had been busy consolidating communist power at the centre of a nationalist movement which, in its external aspect, many observers with its moderation.
1967	Clara was not fully aware of Miss Haines' interest, because it was hidden by a sharp and brisk demeanour, and by an almost excessive severity, so she worked all the harder in her efforts to .
1967	She wondered if there was the faintest chance of them with the significance of her position.
1967	She was tremendously impressed by a casual comparison which he drew between the victorious hero of the film and Corneille's Le Cid, and all the more because Le Cid was one of her set texts for A Level, whereas he was taking physics, chemistry and mathematics.
1967	What her most of all was his knowledge of the town itself, and of the way a town functions.
1967	The Comédie Française did not her either, for it seemed to her a collection of posturing gabbling shadows, mocking at plays that she had studied in tranquillity and silence: the celebrated mirrors of Versailles were all spotty, Notre-Dame looked at her as though it had two spires missing from on top, and the famous intellectual cafés were full of old men and tourists.
1967	The eagle was so evidently, so ferociously beautiful; one would have thought that it could have itself upon the most unwilling beholder.
1980	The incident of the ass: God's purpose seems to be so to Balaam, that no matter how hard Balak works on him, the prophet will stick to the truth.
1987	His stepbrother, half-scandalized and wholly by Herbert's levity, never forgot the episode.
1989	Within a few weeks Richard was loading Marshal with honours, lands and responsibility and an incident such as this, combining skill at arms with sound political common sense, could well have him.
1973	She had also decided to invite Louise and Miriam, whom she wanted to with her domestic abilities, but only after a struggle in which she was torn between the pleasure of them and the displeasure of having two more women and thereby disturbing what she considered to be a favourable balance of the sexes.
1988	And then, for the first time in his place of birth, he read The Dry Salvages which opens with the Mississippi, the river which had so  his childish imagination.
1989	One ex-Harvard dealer who was recruited by a stockbroker found his new colleagues surprised that, with his Harvard background, he should be there, although doubtless his sales ability them.
1989	References to "poison pills"  "shark repellants" and "golden parachutes" irritate some investors even as they others — and they flummox almost everybody.
1989	This term has, in practice, been used generally by dealers who want to their clients.
1989	Furthermore, the infamous cassette tape recording of open outcry on a real trading floor was turned right up to clients, so the AEs had to shout loudly to make themselves heard.
1986	There they had been questioned for a long time, in a way which — Alice could see, watching Bert's face as he told the tale — had not only but sobered the two.
1986	The smile apparently had Bert and Jasper.
1986	I sit in front of the television and my girl-friend by pointing out all the faults of the players; it is much more comfortable and less dangerous than participation, and my girl-friend thinks I am wonderful.
1989	The ceramics particularly her and she found that they were referred to in the catalogue as "agitational chinaware" .
1986	, they passed him on to an agency with a good reputation for seeing young people.
1989	It was his unselfconscious but absolute seriousness about art that so his words upon others.
1989	The dispute was being regarded as a trial of strength by the labour movement (in a nationwide context of increased union militancy) and the solidarity of all the trades in the printing industry the employers still standing out against the men's memorial.
1990	If that was the Big Time, it wouldn't have them too much — the journey would have seemed like an eternity.
1978	He also used Law himself to editors who were on less familiar terms with Fraser, as with Marlowe of the Daily Mail, and Law took a direct interest in negotiations with the most difficult of all the Unionist editors, J. L. Garvin of the Observer.
1978	At the meeting of Unionists of 12 November, Law read the letter and his audience with the concessions that Lloyd George seemed ready to make.
1978	In Wales the Unionists had only two coupons out of twenty-two, because most of the sitting Liberals backed Lloyd George, but this did not much Welsh Unionists.
1979	The attitudes of and between parents begin to themselves on it simply because they are parental attitudes, not because they are understood.
1987	Esther says of Mrs Jellyby: her voice my fancy as if it had a sort of spectacles on too Ch 8 and of Mr Turveydrop:
1987	Lawrence does not neglect sound effects in on us the harsh sensory qualities of the industrial scene.
1989	Billy was not at all by the chapel and was trying to out-stare some heifers in the next field.
1988	They tend to dress for comfort and convenience rather than to .
1984	The temptation is, of course, to management with national press coverage, but this may not always be the most effective.
1984	However, a really heavy paper does not and is often seen more as ostentation than as a sign of quality.
1992	Well you're probably only doing that though in order to people when you go back.
1993	But it didn't his mother.
1988	This impressive series of statutes may owe something to the influence of Justinian's Code and Digest , which was the core of Roman law and the foundation of the training of civil lawyers; yet while Roman law was part of the atmosphere breathed by nearly all lawyers in the thirteenth century, and at least one outstanding civil lawyer, Vacarius, was familiar to Englishmen, the statutes on the whole betray little of Justinian, concerned as they were largely with the clarification of traditional indigenous and feudal problems.
1991	In part his actions had been designed to Russia's allies, especially the Chinese who continued to preach revolutionary Communism and a harsh anti-Western line.
1991	His moves within Russia towards ‘openness’(glasnost ), accompanied as they were by freer elections and the release of dissidents, including Sakharov in 1986, Western public opinion.
1968	‘I asked (I was trying to fit in what we'd heard of him) about his having passed out of the Ecole Normale so high, which had rather me.
1992	The teachers in our study did use strategies which came into the first category, but it was the second which was the key to understanding the all-pervasive quality of the collaboration and the self-sufficiency of the children which had so us, allowing the teacher uninterrupted periods of time for working with individuals and groups.
1991	Bobby, attempting to one of the more glamorous female students, had invented for Wood the name ‘Oska’ and this nickname, in Bobby's spelling, stuck.
1991	They were shown round by a Père Obein whose calm wisdom and urbanity so them that he remained for them a touchstone of good sense.
1991	Nevertheless the urgency of his conviction and as his appreciation of Blake proceeds he reveals the extent to which his own preoccupations drew inspiration from this artist's work.
1991	Towards the end of 1951 he undertook a Sketch-Club criticism at St Martin's School of Art where his liveliness and way of talking the young David Tindle, who, though not a student at St Martin's, was sitting in among the audience.
1991	‘What's going on here?’ he would ask, setting to work a critical apparatus that left his students .
1991	His apparently unflagging zest for life Bowler.
1992	Though the function of a menu is usually to inform, it may also — left on a mantelpiece — serve to , to decorate, or to amuse.
1993	He was not at all by her explanation that it was just to eliminate him from their inquiries.
1989	George Eliot clearly admires the one at Cheverel Manor, ‘which was so bare of furniture that it one with its architectural beauty like a cathedral’.
1989	This is no fiction, but a report from the Daily Telegraph of 1864 which so itself upon Ruskin that he reprinted it in red type in Sesame and Lilies : ‘Be sure, the facts themselves are written in that colour, in a book which we shall all of us, literate or illiterate, have to read our page of, some day.’
1993	It does not arise, as Letterman imagines, from on women your sympathy and sensitivity to their imagined plight.
1993	Their analysis may not go any deeper than that, but it is expressed in a way which Letterman, a sort of passionate commitment to the power of the idea which he has — subversively — been advocating in Hollywood for years.
1987	He replied: ‘Really he didn't me very much, to be honest about it.
1987	Doubtless because he the Congress he was asked to join Mikhail Borodin as Comintern agent in Canton.
1990	Probably some green kid fresh out of journalism school, anxious to .
0000	I tried to upon the child that if he had landed in England before he met me, he would not have spoken English and people there might have regarded him as ridiculous.
0000	In one sentence Jean-Claude was trying to M. Lévy and insult my husband.
1993	The eliciting context of ‘Fighting talk’ was one in which the boys may have been quite strongly motivated to the researcher by exaggerating the extremity of their views on race.
1982	It was the seasonal migrants who the rest of Spain with Galician poverty; under their ‘kings’ perhaps 30,000 labourers went south for the harvest in  the 1890's.
1988	‘Of course’— Hugh seemed deeply with his surroundings —‘we'll help with the barbecue.
1986	At the same time its hardness meant that it could be used to softer substances such as clay or wax without incurring wear.
1991	Neither at Syracuse nor at Cyrene did the native element, which consisted partly of nomads (JRS , 1978, p. 224), much influence the quality of Greek culture, except that the need to the Libyan locals may have had something to do with the long survival of the Battiad kingship.
1991	Herodotus' History can be seen as a sermon on the text that Spartans and Persians, even in their great period of conflict, gradually came to value each other 's qualities:2 at first(Hdt. i.153) Cyrus the Great scoffs at the Greeks who come together in a market-place to cheat each other ; by the end, the exiled Spartan king Demaratos is shown (vii.104) lecturing a clearly Xerxes on the subject of Spartan deference to law.
1992	This is the first show of Cooper's dedicated exclusively to this medium that I have ever seen and it me as providing the ideal means for her to achieve that tenuous balance between coy decorativeness and crude primitiveness which she uses successfully to convey the psychological weight of a figure's gesture.
1992	These fossil-like impressions of flesh-forms convey a chilling vulnerability not shared but enhanced by the metal material which they now permanently .
1989	which me with its green circumference.
1992	No doubt the jury would have been interested to hear that the victim had convictions for offences of dishonesty, and conceivably even more (though in law they would be wrong to be) to learn that she had in the past tried to stab a policeman.
1993	He'll show you how to your friends and he'll talk about the role of the man in the kitchen.
1992	His efforts to soften the Masons' sinister image — he ordered all branches to launch publicity drives — have failed to their numerous critics.
1992	Alistair hoped to Hazel with his growing ease in this milieu (and managed to exchange wary leers with a few shambling, half-familiar figures — fellow screenplay writers, knowers, seekers).
1992	But these days Hazel seemed sufficiently by him anyway, whatever he did.
1992	Alistair lay there the next morning (her turn to make tea), wondering about this business of being .
1992	Hazel had him mightily, seven years ago, in bed: by not getting out of it when he got into it…the office telephone rang many times that Monday, but none of the callers had anything to say about Offensive from Quasar 13 .
1992	Everybody looked suitably .
1992	When Ps. lanisticola was first described by Dr Warren Burgess in 1976, the hobby was in general not , as the new species was said to be similar in appearance to livingstonii with the main difference being in the dentition.
1992	When the National Rivers Authority heard of the Gold Line product they asked for samples, and so were they that Steve now supplies exclusively to the Thames and Severn/Trent divisions, which both have extensive coarse fish breeding stations.
0000	However, in particular by the fact that Price was an accomplice who had retracted his Swedish evidence before the magistrate, the court decided to discharge the order made by the magistrate.
0000	Nor am I by the floodgates argument — it is said that the Divisional Court would be overwhelmed by applications to review visitors' decisions.
1989	I endeavoured to upon them that the cause I was fighting for was that of women and children.
1989	The chanting of arithmetical tables by the whole class, day after day, used to the data so firmly that none of the circumstances of later life could eliminate that early acquirement.
1989	In this way the diverse opinions and findings of a topic are high-lighted and on your consciousness, as a supplement to the printed textbooks that should be your guides.
1989	So far we have tried to on you the importance of having one set of notes rather than a mass of different notebooks or scraps of paper.
1989	You can on yourself the need for clarity of expression, meticulous accuracy and brevity by imagining, while writing a report, that you will have to defend the completed version in court under cross-examination by an opposing Counsel.
1989	This aspect of the writing of reports has been exaggerated to on you that every report, even the least important, must be able to stand up to expert cross-examination.
1986	So in 1950 the American, Hillary Waugh, by a volume of real murder cases he had picked up, not so much because of the horrific details the author had dwelt on as by the tone of  authenticity that seemed to arise naturally from the accounts of the cases, decided to write a fictional crime story catching as much as he could of this real-life feel.
0000	So the claims that are made for the good of prison does your not, your not by, well we have to give right of reply to Patricia  as you work at Cottonvale.
0000	Anne has said that, that giving them th th the grizzliest facts doesn't really them.
1989	Thirty years old — five years older than Richard — she carried the unmistakable air of not being easily by anything, or anyone.
1989	His determination to Joan, to win her, made him even more tongue-tied; his usual conversational gambit was to shift from foot to foot and laugh a great deal.
1989	Lewis upon Simon Draper the need for Virgin to sign the group, Culture Club, and their lead singer — now rechristened Boy George.
1991	He trotted past the celebrated twisting and churning of the Lodore Falls without the slightest inclination to stop and wonder: there was no-one around to and the sudden skin of grey which had drawn tightly over the summer sky like a blind hurried him on.
1991	The force of this demand both men.
1991	The ‘Honourable’ had not Mr Crump; the younger brother of an Earl had not daunted him — he was aware, though, that the man talked to him easily and, equally, made him comfortable.
1991	His success him and he wanted to celebrate.
1992	She could clearly remember the first day that Scott had shown her around, could remember being by the overwhelming glamour of it all.
1984	‘No, but you are very fortunate —’ She looked, it seemed to me, suitably .
1984	Even in the fading light it her, if only because it was worse even than she had imagined — or Lionel had said.
1993	Mbanefo was a splendid man of total integrity and his colleagues me in the same way.
1993	So he thought up lots of cool things he had done, to it, to show it how much he deserved the ice crown.
1990	I was young and easily , so when I saw her in the West Indies, beautiful and elegantly dressed, I thought I loved her.
1993	Mig Romerez did not even recognise a football when I showed him one but his exotic appearance should be enough to those bumpkins in ‘The Tip’ crowd.
1993	In fact, so  am I with his performance that I shall personally be paying his train fare from Birmingham twice a week.
1993	Within another two minutes Simmons was two-thirds towards completing his hat trick after he outpaced all six defenders and side-footed the ball past goalkeeper Slack, who had been caught unawares as at the time he was trying to a group of young girls in the crowd by swinging on the crossbar.
1982	It is sometimes possible to answer a question literally in a couple of sentences, but this will not always the examiner.
1982	Far more pupils are taken on than can hope to succeed in practice, and if you have not been able to any barrister sufficiently with your qualities to be taken on, it may perhaps be for the best that you are forced to look to a different career at this juncture.
1967	The ships your uncle very much.
1972	The trains in India and in Morocco had them on recital tours as some of the most distinctive they had ever seen.
1972	It may not you, but there's a man I should be defending in court all day, and it's nearly dawn.
1993	But he was encouraged by his feelings for Deirdre, by his desire to her, perhaps also by some vague idea that to excite her sympathy would automatically make him more attractive to her.
1993	Oblivious, Michael Stein continued, obviously seeking to .
1993	Stephen looked .
1991	‘She wanted to you with some new clothes she bought in France.
1991	When they had eaten, sitting companionably at the kitchen table, she told him how she was by his unsuspected talent.
1992	‘I had it upon me that my posting to your staff was a matter of strict duty.
1968	Maud talked with a mixture of pedantry and horse sense that him as singular and forcible.
1993	Richmann, clearly less with Henri's powers of fortune-telling, snorted.
1993	Harrods has the final say in whom its concessions may hire, even down to the lowliest positions, and Sally may have seemed the obvious choice to them.
1993	Thanks for the tip, Daniel, we're sure our readers will enjoy their friends with this useful shortcut.
1993	When you come to use it, DataEase in several ways.
0000	1824 "This Meeting being with the utility to the Island by the appointment of a Steamboat to ply in place of the Packet, do unanimously Stent themselves in the sum of one Hundred and ten pounds sterling for this current Year…"
1988	It is easy to dismiss them as the strategic outpourings of a new recruit trying to the party machine.
1990	The readiness with which the American delegates their character and energy upon the Congress, leading its deliberations, influencing its thought, and even in some instances correcting its faults, is a quiet but signally effective illustration of their better preparation for a more thorough practical acquaintance with the work of deliberative assemblies.
1987	Lisa was always his favourite and he seemed favourably that Tony had stayed around.
1982	They were both now.
1987	Whereas the good introduction , the poor one depresses, conditioning the reader to anticipate inaccuracy, poor understanding, irrelevancy, muddled thinking-all the qualities, in fact, which the experienced examiner has come to associate with the weak or poor response."
1993	And certainly we're not trying to we're trying to get information over aren't we?
1993	You make contacts you people
1993	to people.
1993	Er I think it's just worth mentioning again that it's still on and er I, I think er it is really more important than ever now for us to on Chris  what good work we do because er of the changing situation within the industry.
1992	‘I'm glad something you.’
1990	Typical PDLs include Interpress, , PostScript and DDL.
1990	-
1990	Some five years ago when I first encountered the system on a trip to America I recall being both and disappointed.
1990	that the system was so easy to use, so much more intuitive than the conventional CP/M and MS-DOS computers that I was then used to, let alone the minis and mainframes.
1992	Contestants in a beauty contest had only judges to with their looks and stance.
1992	Zena had many other, more trenchant critics to .
1990	Chen took a deep breath then looked about him at the banks of monitors that filled every wall of the huge, hexagonal room, despite himself.
1963	You don't have little set-pieces or set-ideas you gush out to people with.
1963	And I stupidly tried to him.
1993	And he gulled, and also , the bystanders by lifting up one of the horse's front hoofs, giving it two or three sharp taps with his knuckles and saying confidently: ‘Right!
1993	Prentice didn't sound .
1987	Much with the continental system of state hygiene, they were determined to implement a similar programme in Britain.
1987	All the children said that Miss Outram had on them not to ‘go home and tell your mothers and make a bother about it’.
1987	Medical staff at the Local Government Board the importance of these discoveries on their local health authorities through a constant barrage of memoranda, visitations and staff consultations.
1973	But the appearance of Howard when he came into the room must have him in spite of himself — the bulging clear blue eyes, the eager lean of the body forward, the anxiety on the face to understand the world around him.
1973	The girls both stare at him, obviously by the scale and force of his concern.
1973	But he's , Howard can tell, by the casual use of expressions like ‘dreck’ and ‘would you believe?’
1973	Howard gazes at Freddie, deeply .
1992	Uniformity is established when certain atmospheric, terrestrial, and any other factors discussed [above]are co-operating, and appears either  because a certain, defined economy makes its on the community as a whole, or because a number of different growth-forms are combined to form a single aggregate which has a definite and constant guise.
1992	Although with Clements' views, Tansley eventually challenged the super-organism interpretation of the community (see chapter 11).
1993	Jenny asked him, obviously with his instinctive handling skills.
1993	Adam's natural ability Jenny.
1993	That should them.
1993	‘,’ said Billie.
1967	She hated herself for being and frightened by  London, but she was impressed and frightened all the same.
1965	At times he was so dogmatic that I wanted to laugh, to behave in the traditionally xenophobic, continentals-despising way of my race; at times, rather against my will, he me — not only as a rich man with some enviable works of art in his house.
1991	He nodded, as though , before leaning forward.
1991	Mrs Nowak had her as a strong woman, a woman inclined to fantasy perhaps, but resilient and not inclined to despair.
1993	‘I show you something which  could change the face of your world,’ he said, ‘but it does not you.’
1993	He wanted to ask what she had to be tired about, to remind her that this dinner-party was all her idea, and there was no real point to it at all, since they had asked nobody whom they needed to .
1993	The Gnomes broke into wide grins at this and said wasn't the thing and Floy in the right of it, and was what they'd set out to do and hadn't Floy the way with words?
1993	The Gnomes chimed in, saying to be sure they would, obliging was what they were, and it the best thing of all to be, leave aside , which was just as important.
1993	But then it occurred to him that perhaps the joke was Nicola's and not Blufton's at all, some invention to her boss and ensure her succession to Jane Pargeter's job.
1993	‘To me, I think.
1993	Sounds just the sort of thing Nicola would have made up to Blufton.’
1990	I don't accept your terms, love says; sorry, you don't , and by the way what a silly uniform you're wearing.
1993	His capacity for addressing children all who saw it.
1993	The glimpse of Johnson reflecting on the position of Slains Castle in relation to the perilous sea, displays a man with a capacity for the learned mot juste, surely a gift which Johnson polished, having discovered how he might with it.
1993	It may be that depredations had occurred before they got to Strichen; Boswell, who had visited fifteen years earlier, clearly expected more from the druidical circle, although whether to Johnson further, or to avoid being thought an inaccurate provider of anticipations, is difficult to tell, as he does not expand beyond saying, ‘…
1993	Dunvegan , despite both its grey colour and the obvious architectural tinkerings of the Victorians.
1990	Car Hire is also possible, and a tour round the deserted villages and dramatic marble mountains of the Mani peninsula never fails to .
1991	‘From the word go,’ she says, ‘my father on me that there is nothing finer than to beat someone playing well.’
1991	The most common culinary crises were narrowed down to: seduction cuisine — how to cook a romantic dinner to ; budget cuisine, coronary cuisine, comfort cuisine — for those not feeling on top of the world; spoil yourself cuisine — for anyone on their own; student cuisine; survival cuisine — for those who've never had to cook for themselves before; sports cuisine — for those needing a carbohydrate boost before a sporting activity; trim cuisine — for cooks wanting to entertain but still stick to a diet; creep cuisine — to the boss; and finally, oat cuisine — for vegetarians, of course!
1991	Kevin came to the rescue with a meal that certainly , so much so that Pam's husband won the deal!
1990	Glumness apart, he nonetheless would like to be thought of as a comic writer and indeed, though its themes are class, race and sex, what most about The Buddha of Suburbia is that it is full of humour.
1991	I got their programme and went to a lecture by Michel Odent who wrote Entering the World , a book that had really me.
1991	The NCMD should not be regarded as merely a means to obtain sites and councils or other bodies.
1990	The strength of loyalty to and interest in the University which you show continues to me.
1990	Soon you will be able to your friends by using a University of Birmingham Alumni credit card.
1990	At a recent VR lecture tour in Amsterdam, Leary, the founder of multi-media software company Knoware, acknowledged that these are early days for VR (most of the audience were disappointed by what they saw but by what they heard).
1991	Some companies do have genuine offers after April 5 because they've begun a new accounting period and will be keen to their investors.
1991	‘We want to on people that they are contravening the law if they moor or make fast to navigation aids,’ says Howard Cooper, a spokesman for Trinity House.
1992	They are making this huge investment based on their perception of us and we need to on them that we are a forward-looking, cost-conscious business.’
1992	The idea that drinking nablabs was a seriously smart thing to do ant that hordes or women would subsequently fall at one's feet probably looked great on a storyboard but it failed to the punters.
1991	He would put on a white overall for the occasion, more to the customer than for hygienic reasons, then have a good look at the tooth.
1990	It's just like Blackpool,’ snorts Tim Burgess, the recently demopped Charlatans vocalist, in his classic Brit ‘me’snarl.
1990	‘Love Lies Limp’ was a hoot in its day, ‘Life’as a deranged protest anthem and ‘Vibing Up The Senile Man’is still prone to be namechecked.
1979	He wondered, morbidly introspective in the cold light of dawn, whether his decision to see the next murder case through from the call to the scene of crime to the trial had really arisen from a desire to learn or merely from a craven wish to or, worse, to propitiate, his staff, to show them that he valued their skills, that he wanted to be one of the team.
1988	The dignified parts "the many" and secured public support so that the system was legitimised, but they did not actually govern or wield any real power.
1990	When she wore 'em into Rugely They the people hugely, While in Fordham folk adores 'em And they loved 'em in West Looe!
1989	Sadat visited the Shah in Teheran in October 1971, and each  man the other with his friendships and strategic views.
1989	This view Kennedy.
1989	The Shah had visited Washington in November 1977, towards the end of Carters election, and the new administration had upon him that although the United States still regarded him as an important ally, the days of unrestricted arms sales, while arrest and torture by SAVAK were ignored by the US, were over, In fact, the Shah had already moderated SAVAK, released some political prisoners and allowed a little more criticism of his government to be expressed, even before Carter's inauguration.
1989	He spoke without notes, and his ability to relate economic changes on one part of the world to political rivalries in another left Carter and his staff greatly .
1990	The petition fee and deposit should be handed to the Supreme Court Accounts Office, Fee Stamping Rooms, who will record the receipt and will two entries on the original petition, one in respect of the court fee and the other in respect of the deposit (applies to High Court only).
0000	That's the only chance you get in that one whole year, to these people.
1993	Christie offered to abort the baby, the Evanses with his first-aid certificates.
1993	On fragmentary evidence, Daniel as a reasonable and well-educated man, with a typical prospector's irrepressible enthusiasms.
1993	In private an autocrat, Ballinger was popular with the public and its political representatives, whom he with his authority, journalism, and the exhibitions he organized; but, sadly, his lack of humour and austere sense of mission alienated many of his associates and he intimidated his subordinates.
1993	By the end of the war he accounted for thirty-five more spies to complete a wartime record which the general staff and ensured the continuance of his organization into the peace, though on a much reduced basis from his final wartime strength of 800.
1993	To help him recover, he travelled to South Africa in the winter of 1890–1, where he met Cecil Rhodes [q.v.], who greatly him.
1993	Here he gained experience in locomotive building and his ability sufficiently Charles F. Beyer, in charge of the locomotive department, so that in 1842 he recommended Ramsbottom as locomotive superintendent of the Manchester and Birmingham Railway, which in 1846 became part of the London and North Western, of which he was then appointed district superintendent of the north-east division.
1993	The family moved to London in 1897, and Rosenberg was educated at the Baker Street Board School in Stepney, where his natural gift for both drawing and writing so the headmaster that he allowed him to spend most of his time on them.
1993	His poems so Thomas Gee, the owner and editor of the influential weekly Baner ac Amserau Cymru (Banner and Times of Wales) that he invited him to join his staff as a trainee journalist.
1993	Further works at Westminster Palace were entrusted to him in April 1346, and included the final stages of St Stephen's chapel, and he was to masons and carpenters for Edward III's expedition against France.
1993	He became with the superiority of the French and Belgian kite-balloons over his own spherical type, reported accordingly to the Admiralty, and was promptly recalled to initiate kite-balloon training at Roehampton in March 1915.
1993	However, he Sir Clements Markham [q.v.], who selected him to command the SY Morning in 1902 to be sent to the relief of the Discovery expedition of Robert Falcon Scott [q.v.].
1993	Within a year he had so Telford that he was invited to become his assistant in London, where he spent the next three years, until his father's illness in the summer of 1824 prompted Telford to send him back to Inverness; two months later his father died.
1993	He became lord lieutenant of Hertfordshire in 1612 and his punctilious implementation of orders from the Privy Council the king, who made him a knight of the Garter in 1624.
1993	He cultivated members of the aristocracy and sprinkled them among his company boards to potential investors.
1993	In 1646 his saltpetre scheme the young Robert Boyle [q.v.]and brought patronage from Boyle and his sister, Lady Ranelagh.
1993	Within a few years the increased prosperity of the yard had so John Shuttleworth that he turned the business over to him.
1993	,Hugh (c. 1330–1411), London carpenter, was probably the son of William Herland (died 1375), with whom he carpenters in 1360 for work at Westminster Palace and the Tower of London.
1993	At this time he also fifty carpenters for service in Brittany, and worked on Portchester Castle, Hampshire.
1993	Notwithstanding this heavy responsibility, Herland was still one of the masters charged with repairs at Winchester Castle, and in 1398 was to labour for making a new harbour at Great Yarmouth.
1993	On 27 March 1791 he wrote in this capacity to William Pitt, first minister, detailing improvements in the system.
1993	The latter so George II that he had it hung on the walls of his apartment, and it was being printed as late as 1821.
1993	He so Kolbe that when the great German chemist, A. W. von Hofmann, professor at the Royal College of Chemistry in London, visited Marburg in 1858 he recommended Griess for a position in Hofmann's laboratory.
1993	His abilities A. C. Headlam [q.v.], principal of King's College, London, who secured lectureships in ecclesiastical history (1905–11) and patristics (1911–18) for him and made him sub-editor (1903–18) and later joint editor (1921–7) of the Church Quarterly Review .
1993	Warbeck's knowledge of the Yorkist court, which contemporaries, probably came largely from Brampton, although there is nothing to associate him with the conspiracy itself.
1990	The man who did the job, thereby Bernard greatly, was Dai Jones, working at the time as a service engineer for domestic appliances.
1990	You could never yourself or your own ideas and feelings on to her.
1970	Nor indeed to the present upon us with framed photographs of actors and actresses, cricketers and jockeys, the semi-famous sub-world, with duplicated scrawls of spurious well-wishings stamped across their corners.’
1993	It was hard to decide if he was laughing at her or by her performance.
1993	They'd chatted at length about the progression of the public relations arrangements, about the meeting she'd just had with the video expert, and Salvo had appeared at the amount of hours she was putting in.
1993	She was herself with her ability to inject a casual calm into her voice, to compose her features in the darkness of the car.
1991	Maybe it did their superiors.
1991	Lehmann, watching, saw how that the young men, but it was only half true.
1991	DeVore took his eye from the lens of the electron-microscope and looked across at the geneticist, smiling, by what he'd seen.
1985	These are all justified by the dramatic context Orpheus's happiness as he sings to the shepherds, his effort to Charon, his triumph as he marches off to fetch Eurydice — but they also gave the audience music to remember.
1988	Moreover, Picasso obviously had a more forceful and dynamic personality than Braque, and this had itself strongly on influential critics such as Apollinaire, Salmon and Vauxcelles, with whom he was more friendly than was Braque.
1988	While in Paris Klee saw and admired Cubist works at Uhde's, and he may have known the rapidly growing Rupf collection in Berne, but he remained most by Delaunay's scientific approach to the handling of colour, which fitted in with his own ideas; in the autumn of 1912 he translated some of Delaunay's notes on light for the review Der Sturm.
1993	You must speak to Ruth and upon her that she has to come to school.
1987	Whether pupils' behaviour is itself a political statement or not, the aggressive forms themselves onto educational politics.
1987	On neither occasion could he say why he had done what he did, nor had he done it in the company of other pupils he wanted to .
1987	A number of celebrities had also been invited, chiefly to the  journalists.
1989	But the professor showed Davide that the coin was too thick to receive the all the way through as goldleaf does, that the engravers had struck both sides independently, with two different dies.
1960	Peel quotes evidence that the raging streamfloods and sheetfloods mentioned above are the exceptions that have themselves strongly on the mind of chance, lucky observers.
1988	Joseph said: ‘Well, just make sure you on her that I had nothing to do with any murder and she is not to suggest it.’
1988	This is what I want to on her.
1988	Rain said drily: ‘I don't think she's easily .’
1991	by what he saw, the emperor gave karate his stamp of approval and at once it became very popular.
1988	Mehta's idea for a new Afghan-Soviet treaty comparable to the Finnish-Soviet treaty (presumably meaning the 1948 treaty) which eventually encouraged the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Porkkala is unlikely to Soviet officials since the USSR has already signed a bilateral security-oriented treaty with Afghanistan in the form of the 1978 Treaty of Friendship, Good-Neighbourliness and Cooperation.
1960	It was him above all she would be trying to by her break with convention — in a quite futile way, because it was obvious that he and Clare were permanently attached.
1960	No decision of his was unmixed with  egotism, and an agreeable consciousness of Clare and the rest of the family had made his decision easier.
1985	Such an aspiration prevailed among some geographers at least partly unaware of first, the revival of interest in human activity; secondly, the focus in physical geography research upon the magnitude of human impact; and thirdly, the hazard research that was facilitating closer links between physical and human geography although these links did not Johnston (1983c).
1988	In 1904 the Ontario Provincial Geologist, by the quantities of the rare mineral cobalt he had detected in the ores of one locality, Long Lake, put up a post with a board attached bearing the legend ‘Cobalt Station, Temiskamming and Northern Ontario Railway’.
1993	Nor was he much by Amber Epipheny.
1978	The old lady was looking anxious; she belonged to a generation and a class more easily by policemen.
1978	Some passages stood out in his mind with almost photographic clarity, presumably because they had themselves on his mind earlier.
1984	Nor does it carry much information about the clouds to Earth because the clouds fail to on this radiation many meaningful signatures.
1984	However, the scattered radiation does carry to Earth signatures on it by the atmosphere above the clouds, and by the 1960s it had been established that this part of the atmosphere alone contained about 1000 times as much CO 2 as the whole atmosphere of the Earth.
1992	‘You had best upon the household the need for discretion.
1992	‘They have a job before them, in a place this size,’ Corrary remarked, but he sounded nonetheless.
1989	But it was Hunter-Blair's earlier air of guilt which had Wickham.
1989	Harbury studied their suitably faces.
1993	Chief Executive George Mathewson is delighted with the 8 to 1 seal of approval, ‘It has been a terrific boost to know that the number of customers with our service far outweighs those who have a complaint,’ he said.
0000	I was not alone in being by your contribution to the recent Link meeting with Sir Wyn Roberts.
1990	A seminar held by Lothian and Borders Police in connection with road safety issues involving the older road user revealed that a key element to ensure enhancement of the safety of this group requires guidance to upon them the importance of individual responsibility.
1988	His vigour and passion me.
0000	So if we wanted to do some, I mean if you, if you can use that to do mental arithmetic to your mates, that's .
0000	Something similar and er they came up to the, the great Pacific engines that came on and they, two of them came down in front of the stage, two of them were just a little bit higher up, and on the stage itself, there were scenes done like the hall in the Grand Central Station, New York and er they were, it was either the Ink Spots or some of these dancers that gave a performance, and it was so well put on that you couldn't help being by
1988	He was, however, immensely by the great number of monasteries and churches.
1988	He me at once, for he was obviously authoritative and efficient.
1989	I was at all times by their standard of workmanship.
1980	In the circumstances, the argument wouldn't me if I were a stockbroker."
1980	The result was enormous paper profits for the parent company — Ingard Holdings — which he used to attract investors, and to the bank.
1990	Aristos of Salamis in Cyprus, who probably lived in the middle of the third century B.C., is said by Arrian (7.15.5) to have been one of the two historians who not only spoke of an embassy of the Romans to Alexander the Great, but made Alexander prophesy the future greatness of Rome, so was he by the envoys.
1990	They certainly meant to the Greek readers with the wisdom of the Jews.
1990	Nothing could the Jews of Egypt more favourably than a letter by Judas Maccabaeus in person to the very respected Jewish-Egyptian writer Aristobulus, who will recur in our story.
1985	What me most, I think, was the sheer instantaneousness with which Lorne lost his temper.
1985	I asked, anew by Selina's witch radar.
1981	The composer's liveliness and wit him and, not least, his enthusiasm (unsuspected by Nietzsche) for Schopenhauer: "You will understand how much I enjoyed hearing him speak of Schopenhauer with indescribable warmth, what he owed to him, how he is the only philosopher who has understood the essence of music."
1981	Contact with the man Wagner now kindled an interest in Wagner the theorist and within a few weeks Nietzsche was writing again to Rohde to on his friend his high opinion of Wagner's Opera and Drama, a treatise written nearly twenty years before, but apparently now providing Nietzsche's first direct acquaintance with any of Wagner's theoretical works.
1981	Greek tragedy, he on his audience, had been a total art form, a Gesamtkunst (Wagner's slogan, although Wagner's name was not mentioned), to suit an  age of whole men:a poetic drama that made use of architecture (the theatre), painting (scenery and costume), song, dance and music; a drama created amid "perfection and harmony" by "artistic man" , who, at least in the earlier part of the fifth century, the time of Aeschylus, was poet, composer, conductor, producer and actor in one; a drama performed at the communal festival of Dionysus before an audience which brought to the theatre something of the instinctive, rapturous spirit from which, in the Dionysiac celebrations, tragedy had originated in the first place.
1981	Full of admiration and above all by the signs of Nietzsche's originality of mind and literary power, he saw in him a new kind of worker for the cultural cause with which he identified his own ambitions: "Now you must show what philology is for, and help me bring about the grand" renaissance"…
1981	It is true that his late play, the Bacchae (produced in 405 B.C., a year after his death), dealing expressly with Dionysus and the early opposition to his worship in Greece, is to be interpreted as a belated recognition that such opposition is in fact inadvisable: Pentheus, who opposes the god, is destroyed, and the poet on us that Dionysus is too powerful to be ignored.
1988	Woodie, observing their gallant start, longed to lend them his Chart 3 and to upon them that there was one competent owner at least at this end of the Reach.
1980	And when I hear that , when you're working you're talking as well and he, he, he was a good talker and, and he, you know, he was a good union, a good clever speaker and he me.
1993	me.
1988	Quite what the inhabitants made of that is perhaps left buried in history but it must have Ella for they were married in 1918.
1988	Typically it wasn't the buildings, or the country, that first Eva.
1988	I doubt if I shall meet anyone else in 1982 who will so powerfully me as she did."
1986	"Miss Adeane," he murmured, somewhere above her, "if this pose of the sacrificial victim is intended to me, I ought to warn you that it does not."
1986	Hocazade confounded Molla Zeyrek, a feat which so Mehmed II that he made Hocazade his Hoca.
1993	Perhaps he was trying to you.’
1991	Indeed DNA molecules, whose capacity for storing information has already us, are something close to crystals themselves.
1991	More by a factor of perhaps a hundred million, if that is the ratio between the world population surveyed by our newspapers, and the tribal population about whom our evolved brains ‘expect’ to hear news.
1989	‘Then you must us, Mr Frere.
1989	Seized by an impulse of delight, and with an untypical desire to , he pushed away again and was suddenly spinning like a top on his skates, arms outstretched.
1989	And how deeply she wished she could feel the confidence upon her voice as she added with forced lightness, ‘Apart from any other consideration, I still have a wet dog to find.’
1989	In the Gulbenkian Report the clear exposition of the idea that the arts mediate between an individual's inner being and the external world, and that this gives an educational role to arts activities in the development of pupil personality, appears to have not only arts educators but almost all those administrators, such as GRIST coordinators, who were responsible for programmes which included an arts element.
1993	‘He is a difficult man to .
1991	‘He may have wanted to her,’ said Sarah.
1993	As a boy of fifteen he had his father, the Emperor Jehangir, with the taste he demonstrated in redesigning the Imperial apartments in Kabul.
1993	A few days later a group of nobles keen to Aurangzeb broke into the quarters where Dara was being kept, a small garden outside the walls of Shahjehanabad towards Nizamuddin.
1992	With a gasp of pleasure, with this firm evidence of Dickensian times, the crowd moved forward to inspect the relics.
1992	‘About half past eight it was,’ she added, by her own powers of recollection.
1991	They weren't out to or wield power.
1987	His flute-playing, the vast quantity of bad French poetry he wrote, his friendship with Voltaire (carefully advertised but when put to the test no more than skin deep) many contemporaries and have some historians.
1973	His meticulous performance slightly surprised her; there had been moments when they seemed to have achieved a more casual contact, and he couldn't be still trying to .
1973	And he had that print with careful precision — he or whoever it was.
1989	He nods morosely, as if he always knew I would leave him, and he tries to on me  that I have to disappear out of sight.
1989	The pistols have the rescue gang.
1992	The warning her anxious mother had on her as they'd waited for Folly's plane at Athens airport had obviously been quite correct.
1992	Her mother had always on her how wonderful the British policemen were, but this would be politeness beyond the call of duty…
1992	He sounded , then spoilt it by lapsing back into the mocking tone of their earlier conversation.
1992	I'd forgotten I had a professional to .’
1992	William the Conqueror meant it to the rebellious Londoners with his power, as well as protecting them.’
1992	If she was trying to Luke with her willingness to play by his rules, acting like a jealous child over what was undoubtedly a business phone call was hardly the way to begin.
1992	Trying to his new girlfriend.
1992	But the one thing that does itself on you is that he's so very competent .
1990	‘Your grasp of history me, Mr Barnett.
1982	It certainly those of limited intelligence, among  whom may be numbered Crumwallis himself.
1982	But Hilary did not Mr McWhirter.
1993	‘Who are these people?’ she giggled, by the melodrama.
1993	I've known women to choose something highbrow to me — and sit in an agony of boredom all the way through.
1993	‘with the glamour?’ murmured Lucenzo, watching her intently.
1993	He might be pretending to help her to save his face in front of Katarina and perhaps to her with his kindness.
1992	Then she peered at him over the barrier of her firmly folded arms and expressed a thought that had occurred to her before, but that now she felt itself on her even more strongly.
1992	But she was more than just , she was totally overwhelmed.
1979	He had an odd air of being , but quite bewildered.
1979	Greg was first by the handsome face with its lean, almost sunken outlines.
1979	The room itself, however, was perfectly neat, and provided an excellent foil for Gerald Seymour-Strachey, who was no drivelling dotard, but a smart, upright, handsome old man, his clothes admirably cut and suitable for the occasion, his profile cunningly arranged to , his mane of white hair, thick and shiny, suggesting intellect and a sense of the aesthetically satisfying.
1979	The fact was, he had not felt in the book the of Walter Machin's personality, as he had come to know it — or to think that he knew it.
1993	Tom asked, with a touch of impatience, then added in an aside to Faye and Bill, ‘See, she's so she hasn't even heard me!’
1993	Is it supposed to intimidate me or merely ?’
1993	Her voice trailed away as a fingertip brushed across the tempestuous curve of her lips, but when Luke bent his head he ignored her mouth, his own swooping to the shadowy centre of her chiffon-covered right breast, there to a hard, demanding kiss that sent a pang of piercingly erotic sensation shooting to the core of her womanhood.
1993	I understand it's a common occurrence — Taiwan's greatest beauty brought out on show to visiting statesmen.
1993	‘To find out how it worked,’ Florian conceded graciously, but Luke was still the audience he was trying to .
1991	Of course, this wasn't simple philanthropy on the part of the malai military, although there was the element of locals and making propaganda with such foreign visitors as there now were, but a tactical requirement.
1991	Naturally, he wanted to his colleagues, set up a little frisson, as he'd have put it.
1991	Firing in the square below would not have the President overly.
1991	Kaptan did not look .
1990	This in front of someone I am trying to with my good health, my vivacious vitality, my lack of need to be there.
1988	So was Wilcock that he offered to provide a column free for the new paper.
1988	‘The telephones began buzzing with eager contributors’, he wrote three years later in his book Playpower, ‘and what was once my merely exhibitionist impulse to a friendly gossip columnist soon gathered its own momentum.’
1988	Neville was interested, and sympathetic, towards the paper, but not deeply .
1991	He looked, too, as though he might be quite hard to surprise or .
1983	Then the dragons pop through, as it were, and their form on this world's possibility matrix.
1982	‘That doesn't me.
1993	Now that does me!’
1993	Gina's voice rose in amazement as, uncertain whether to be horrified or , she met his smug expression.
1993	She let her eyes sweep over him, reluctantly at the way his magnificent physique still managed to display itself even under the bulky quilted trousers and jacket.
1992	This program is a must for anyone using a PC at home and will dinner guests who always say ‘You simply must let me have a copy of the recipe, the meal was delicious’, you can now print it out in seconds and sell them a copy.
1992	These facilities are sure to expert spreadsheet users, especially those with experience of Lotus 123.
1992	These facilities are sure to expert spreadsheet users, especially those with experience of Lotus 123.
1992	The speed of the GEM application running under Windows 3.1 will not you, even on a 33-MHz 80486 PC!
1992	If the MD asks you What if interest rates drop to 6%, you can use the scenario manager to show how the end result would differ from the figures you have calculated — and throw in a few other interest rates as well, just to him/her and make that rise you were after a touch more attainable.
1992	For those not by arcade shoot 'em ups comes this excellent version of the popular outdoor sport.
1992	These facilities are sure to expert spreadsheet users, especially those with experience of Lotus 123.
1990	Sussex leg-spinner Salisbury certainly in his debut Test at Lord's, even if he struggled a little on Old Trafford's flat track in the next Test.
1990	Sharp, on trial after leaving French club Auxerre, and is likely to get a contract.
1990	WHEN Boris Yeltsin last visited Britain, one of the things that really him was private health care, not exactly a socialist ideal.
1990	He certainly actress Antonia de Sancha with his athletic prowess.
0000	The keen thespian likens the challenge of reactivating the Pedernales oilfield to mounting a theatrical production — it should the audience enough to leave them yearning for more.
0000	All claims provide the opportunity of the client with an efficient service.
1992	She took up the pastime after friends and family when she made an engagement cake for her brother-in-law.
0000	Then there was the reality that yes our three tropical experts had flown through the questionnaire stage and the producer more than sufficiently at the interview stage and they would now be appearing in front of 14 million viewers, battling it out with another team, unknown until the actual day.
0000	Office Cleaning in Edinburgh were recently called upon to mobilise their best regiment to the Ministry of Defence.
0000	So as naturally as anything, Judith switched to Spanish and greatly the customer as well as pressing upon him the need to provide proper facilities for his ladies.
1993	If that happens will there be a spark left to members of the public?
0000	What has always me enormously about the office bearers and team members I have over the years got to know is that they are never judgemental about those they help, and that, like the members of RNLI boat crews, they go out in all weathers to seek to save life and/or to assist the injured.
0000	What has always me enormously about the office bearers and team members I have over the years got to know is that they are never judgemental about those they help, and that, like the members of RNLI boat crews, they go out in all weathers to seek to save life and/or to assist the injured.
0000	I am deeply appreciative of the input to BNC which came from your partnership's head office, and much by the quality of the documentation submitted.
0000	What has always me enormously about the office bearers and team members I have over the years got to know is that they are never judgemental about those they help, and that, like the members of RNLI boat crews, they go out in all weathers to seek to save life and/or to assist the injured.
1988	What me is that when the causes of this ancient conflict have been forgotten, except by those who have made a study of it, this monument remains, crudely chiselled and doubtless seldom visited, testament to three modest souls who died for what they believed in and who are otherwise lost to history.
1988	Although the girls could be noisy and difficult to discipline they generally observed a neatness in their work habits that continued to me.
1988	When I put down the receiver I heard Geoff Tulloch's voice out in the main office, the young women with his irrepressible personality.
1990	After the postcard came he had told them they'd been informed of his death; the official phrase them.
1993	What can you mind what was the first sort of action on Hoy that you cos Well you'd been there all your life you would have really seen the whole process happening.
1986	Trying to er  and your your cousin, on my strength you know, young men always try to sh show women of any age, how strong they are.
1986	Told me that at just about the same age, he did the same thing to try and the then girl in in the office.
1993	‘Let me go, Alain,’ she ordered as firmly as her trembling would allow, but he was not at all .
1993	‘McAllister?’ he said, looking up, surprised, to on her that maid servants, even American ones, were not supposed to quiz the Master when he was at work — should not even originate a conversation with him.
1993	Who had she been trying to ?
1972	Reginald de Grey reckoned every Welshman a thief and an outlaw, and had his borders patrolled as though against the entire army of France, in great measure creating the animosity and disorder he saw everywhere; and this company might be no more than a routine patrol meant to and intimidate on his usual terms.
1993	Even in these towering mountains, its majesty and grandeur .
1993	‘I wish to on you that the rules I made in London still stand.
1993	‘And it does not you at all,’ he pointed out drily.
1993	‘As it has never me either, you can pretend that I am normal and address me by my name.
1993	‘I'm not at all , Maggie,’ he rasped, filled with unusual rage.
1993	‘I have to admit that she didn't seem overly !’ was the good-natured response.
1993	You seem to have our number-one driver as well, because he too has asked if you could be released to work closely with him for the rest of the season.
1993	‘I have to tell you, you don't know our present subject very well, if you think all the Gothic fripperies are going to her.
1993	You could see right away how the judges were!’
1993	This is the sort of trick you'd expect some tinpot holy man to play, trying to the credulously.
1993	She giggled suddenly and took another swig from the bottle, carelessly wiping away the champagne that trickled down the sides of her mouth with the back of her hand, in a gesture that proved to this man she wasn't the least bit or intimidated by his overbearing attitude.
1993	Dickens, Shakespeare, Thackeray, Shaw; either he was deliberately out to , which she reluctantly doubted, or he really was well read.
1993	Really he's an indoors guy, nightclubs and double brandies and chicks in tank tops with sloppy eyes.
1993	He sounds .
1993	Enormously by this friendly, helpful girl, who didn't seem in the least like most receptionists she encountered, Ellie slid back the registration card, accepted her plastic key, gave one of her funny little smiles, and decided that before going up to her room she'd better try and find Donal.
1993	He is said to have instructed that a castle be built to and intimidate the wild Ui Meith who lived in the surrounding countryside.’
1993	Gotta ‘em.
1993	Stephen's quick action in marching to head off David of Scotland had most of the barons and the King looked forward to a well-attended Easter court, which would confer upon his kingship the final confirmation of acknowledgement by his nobles.
1993	He didn't appear overly with the scheme.
0000	The Fijian king, with this kind of ‘progress’, offered his country to Washington for annexation.
0000	Although we were wary of being shown set-up situations, the people we met us as having deep convictions, lively minds, tireless enthusiasm, incorruptible moral standards.
0000	We're trying to people, remember, not save the
1992	As Cassius remarks when Brutus has the officers of his stoical resolve in accepting Portia's death: ‘I have as much of this in art as you, /But yet my nature could not bear it so’(IV, iii, 192–3).
1993	Did he imagine she'd made a special attempt to him ?
1993	‘Don't you recall upon me the importance of giving myself time to make sure —’
1993	‘Are you trying to somebody?
1992	We are all by the Gurkhas, and anyone who has visited Nepal and seen them in operation is even more impressed.
1992	May I on my hon. Friend that in Plymouth we are tired of waiting what seems like years for land to be released?
1992	When the Home Secretary meets the car manufacturers in March, will he on them the seriousness of the situation and consider compelling them to fit such devices as standard, bearing in mind that, last weekend alone, £100,000 worth of damage was caused by car theft in my constituency?
1992	We shall both those things on Mr. Shamir.
1992	Will the Secretary of State on the Prime Minister the need to raise with Mr. Yeltsin the substance of the conversation that my hon. Friend the Member for Cynon Valley (Mrs. Clwyd) and I had last Tuesday with Mr. Bikov of the Russian Academy of Science?
1992	When my hon. Friend sees the chairman of the Post Office, will he upon him the need for absolute efficiency in delivering election addresses from Labour candidates?
1992	Will he also upon the building societies involved that they have a duty and an obligation to ensure that people are not evicted from their homes until the compensation scheme can take effect?
1992	I should be a good deal more with the Government's determination to deal with weapons of mass destruction in Iraq if they did not have such questionable record on assisting Iraq to obtain a nuclear capability.
1992	May I upon the hon. Gentleman that any case of official error
1992	Firm action over Dubrovnik might both sides that European powers or the United Nations really meant business.
1992	The report of my hon. and noble Friend Lady Cumberlege has clearly my hon. Friend.
1992	It equally those who served on the old Select Committee on Social Services.
1992	If the hon. Gentleman is as clever about local government as he is trying to us, perhaps we could hear something about local government.
0000	International agreements are the outcome of government negotiating positions which juggle perceived strategic interests, as seen by politicians and civil servants, with those on the government by nationally-organised industrial, military, agricultural, and trade union sectoral interests, as well as scientific and other pressure groups.
1993	The reigning Irish champion has joined the Swift factory this year after in the British series last season.
1993	Ferrin, the Northern Ireland 10,000 metres champion, has been in half marathons recently and although he only finished third at Ballyclare he has the pedigree to sustain a challenge from early in the race.
1993	There you will find Victoria ready to produce everything you need to your guests.
1993	Newry defender Errol Lutton, called into the 20-strong Irish training panel earlier this week, has a chance to coach Cees Koppelaar, but it's not clear yet whether he will line out for Ireland or for his club!
1993	‘Gary was one of a number of players who me and I'm delighted to have got him,’ said Linfield manager, Trevor Anderson.
1993	Dress to in the office
1993	And I am certain he would love to have been given the chance to the NIBA selectors as they prepare to pick the side for next month's senior championship in Dublin.
1993	Other youngsters who included Ricky Dunn (MCB), who won the senior boys 100 metres in 11.3 and the 110 metres hurdles in 14.5.
1993	MAS's performance at this stage and at subsequent meetings represents an opportunity to raise the profile of MAS which, if we sufficiently, may provide future work for MAS and KPMG in general.
0000	Husky rugged machine had been demonstrated, and had favourably all who were present.
1988	The sheriff's reply sounded clearly in the hushed corridor, the assembled kids and seeming to confirm Grant's claim to be part of an official police operation — if any needed convincing after seeing one of the feared Apostles being dragged unconscious into an empty cubicle.
1989	"The thing that me most was seeing the pros in trouble get out of trouble," he says.
1989	The thing that him least, he says, was the weather.
1990	The Sajudis chairman Vytautas Landsbergis on Jan. 12 dismissed Gorbachev's proposal as a "cheap lie" intended to the Western media.
1990	During his visit Kaifu met the leaders of the United Kingdom, France, West Germany and Poland, among others, and, as in later discussions with Jacques Delors, President of the Commission of the European Communities (EC), upon them his resolve to strengthen mutual trade relations.
1990	Shortly after the invasion United States troops, backed up by forces from various European, Arab and Asian countries, were quickly dispatched to Saudi Arabia in an attempt to shield the kingdom from Iraqi assault and to upon President Saddam Hussein of Iraq that he should withdraw his troops from Kuwait.
1990	The Guardian of Dec. 7 quoted "Middle East sources" to the effect that Yassir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), had played "a vital role" in upon Saddam Hussein that "the liberation of the hostages would lead to a wider dialogue" .
1991	Baker, who described his role in the talks as attempting to upon the Iraqi government the determination of the 28-country coalition to eject Iraqi forces from Kuwait, said that he had "heard nothing which showed any Iraqi flexibility whatever" .
1991	Tesfaye Gebre Kidan continued to appeal for a ceasefire and to on foreign ambassadors his willingness to negotiate with the rebels.
1992	The meeting was the highest-level contact between the two countries since the end of the Korean War, but the USA stressed that it did not represent an upgrading of bilateral relations, but was a one-off event designed to upon the North Korean government the importance attached to the nuclear safeguards issue by the USA.
1993	But seriously, Nigel  me.
1993	He our sectional conference and he will this conference as well and this only makes me aware that the G M B, not only now, but in the future, will be a leading force in the issues within the British and the European trades union movement.
1993	They know their survival depends on how well they .
1993	After all the hard work the businesses put in, were the angels ?
1993	I think he the Inter Milan coach as well when they played didn't he?
1991	She knows a lot about detection and things!’ explained Sybil, evidently thinking this would .
1993	She was a silly girl, and far too easily by Grunte's elephantine attentions.
1992	her dancing shoe makes all the
1978	Three loose hounds were in there; one, she was sure when she got a good look, was a bitch, Wrathful, who had her that memorable day last February.
1986	by such testimony, Kenneth Lindsay (Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Education) told the House of Commons on 16 November 1939:
1986	We were so familiar with it that its evils failed to us.
1986	On the other hand, people in Britain grew increasingly by the success of the Soviet troops on the eastern front.
0000	by the career potential and the overt friendliness personified by Helen Rivers (then in staff department, responsible for recruitment) he joined the company.
1993	The tour of the Autocatalyst Plant, the Chemicals Manufacturing unit, our Noble Metals operation and the newly established Metal Joining unit (incorporating the large 850 ton extrusion press) as well as a visit to the Colour and Print operation clearly our visitors.
1986	Indeed for me the conference was a great opportunity to meet so many CA staff, whose vitality and unity, in a common cause me.
1990	But I'm sure your flowers will the judges of both these competitions.
1991	To readers with the extent of the researcher's background reading.
1980	NFC me as a democratically managed organisation.
1992	Books used in the liturgy were holy objects, often encased in jewelled bookcovers, and placed on altars or carried in processions to inspire and the faithful.
1992	By its example, and also by its preaching, the church sought to these ideas on the laity, including the secular aristocracy.
1992	A learned court was a prestigious court in the eyes of the realm's elites; it Greeks and Muslims too.
1992	The control Nithard, for such exercises, he noted, often ended in real fights.
1993	Perhaps to upon Hitler that Spanish claims on Morocco were in earnest, Tangier was incorporated as part of metropolitan Spain on 3 November 1940.
1993	It was only when the Finance Minister, Navarro Rubio, confronted Franco personally, on him the absolute and urgent necessity of devaluing the peseta, and asked him how he would feel if ration cards had to be reintroduced, that Franco reluctantly gave in.
1993	It was designed to and overawe by its sheer size: 262 metres long and 41 metres high at its highest point, over the transept.
1993	On the other hand, the pressing need for a dynamic pope to exploit the political vacuum left by the unexpected death of the Emperor Henry VI and the advantages of a third Roman pope in a row may have won over the opposition — and there may have been those by his vigorous views on the papacy's role.
1992	The clothier who wrote in 1760 that high wages made his workfolk "scarce, saucy and bad" was seeking to no one, for he entered it in his private diary.
1992	I tried to look .
1971	Gibbs read out the charge: there was a great deal of florid preambling, all about the defence of the realm, and the jurisdiction of the provosmarshal, and the patriotic obligations of the King's subjects to defend the royal allies against the common enemy, most of which Gibbs and Woodruffe had cooked up to the French.
1991	The town, a jumble of Jekyll-and-Hyde contradictions, did not him.
1982	Ulf, the bishop whose capabilities had so little Bishop Ealdred, had disappeared from view and been replaced at Dorchester by a Saxon, Wulfwig, who was known to be on good terms with Leofric of Mercia.
1992	This seems not to have the Iranians, who the following day attacked Baaquba, near Baghdad.
1992	‘Although Mr Crawford does not any firmness of personality on Feste,’ wrote The Times's critic, ‘the comic scenes, with Mr Stephen Moore's Sir Andrew joining whole-heartedly in the romp, are disciplined and not uninventive.’
1992	The significant event is the landing of Goodbody's patrol behind enemy lines in North Africa, where they set up an ‘advanced-area cricket pitch’, for the purpose of ‘morale’ and to a visiting military VIP as ‘a small patch of sanity’.
1992	His love affair was with laughter, and it came in Black Comedy when his character, sculptor Brindsley Miller, was improving the look of his shabby flat by ‘borrowing’ priceless porcelain and antique furniture from his friend next door to his fiancee's snooty father, who is visiting on the same evening that the supposed richest man in the world is arriving to inspect his sculpture.
1992	by Michael Winner's astounding ability to create his own Olympic Games in Italy, awed by the facts and figures forming the background to-this mind-boggling undertaking, I remained only fleetingly interested in the people involved.’
1990	And in his best quarterdeck manner, the King on the three party leaders that before they left the palace there should be a communique to end speculation at home and abroad.
1990	I had an hour's talk with him, he me very much; he wishes to do the right thing.
1990	It is here, in a communal context, that gang members (in this case the racist ‘Little Murderers’ and ‘Big Murderers’) put up a front to their own members, other gangs and respectable citizens.
1992	And would try to their daughters at the jousting.
1992	‘All the ladies us with their charm, their sense of humour and their vivacity.
1989	They are intrigued by the process, interested in the machinery and most by the skills of the people.
1985	with Stan's success rate Dr Panchen offered to employ him as a collector of specimens for the University using a grant from the National Environmental Research Council.
0000	by the Method masters' formidable screen and stage presence, Allen left fringe theatre for New York, where he studied at the famous Strasberg Institute (former pupils include Marilyn Monroe and Method's godfather Brando) and worked by night as a doorman at the fashionable club, Nell's,’ to pay the rent’.
1989	Watch for the rich earthy tones of their Etruscan paving, the mosaic patterns on the slab capturing the mood of the Mediterranean.
1989	Melanie Griffith as Tess failed to me.
0000	I recall, in my confusion, being inanely by a pop star with enough upstairs to remember his own name.
1988	It was the parasitic nature of the bureaucracy, rather than its class position, that originally Trotsky.
1991	I knew I'd overdone the garlic in the Rogan Josh because I'd been trying to Zaria.
1991	It didn't Prentice one bit.
1991	She looked .
1991	I'm bowled over by the logic and with the religious zeal.’
1990	Black, because it had been burned a thousand years ago; it still showed the shape of the face upon it.
1988	Although the college had been admitting female students in recent years, its outward appearance still succeeded in the visitor with its austere and indefinably masculine grandeur.
1988	But she wanted to upon the porter the existence of an appropriate form of address that did not reveal a woman's marital status.
1988	And she would enjoy him  with what she had managed to find out about Hugh Puddephat so far.
1993	He did not want to, but on the other hand…it might be taken for romantic, it might .
1993	‘?’
1991	Contact with famous name international firms undoubtedly encourages local manufacturers, by the demonstration effect of the success of prestigious foreign firms, to consider seriously the uses they could make of the new technologies.
1991	It also his sister, who quietened down and looked at him with new respect.
1990	They were delighted and by the Medau demonstration, which inspired a visit to the Medau Summer School held at Cromer from which they returned full of praise for those bodies in blue tunics!
1993	But a member of the cynical tendency jeers that after all this brouhaha, a Prime Minister who's obsessed with political safety, will only allow minor pain, though back benchers will be encouraged to squeal so as to the markets.
1992	The Emperor Constantine, by the city's possibilities, transferred the Imperial seat of government there in A.D. 330 and began to build a great new city which he called New Rome.
1992	After the sack of the city in 1239 the cathedral fell into decay until the seventeenth century, but even in this ruinous state greatly travellers of the period.
1990	‘I don't drink Guinness,’ I lied, secretly .
1991	It is even possible that Gloucester's claims of another plot against him were intended not only to justify Hastings' removal but to the council with the gravity of the situation and make them more disposed, not less, to back Gloucester's leadership as the one hope of stability in a worsening political climate.
1991	‘This is your house?’ asked Patterson, .
1991	Werewolf and I looked suitably .
1991	‘That's very good, Tel,’ I said, genuinely .
1991	Werewolf looked too.
1991	Lined up, and obviously well serviced, were a small tractor, a ride-on lawn-mower, a small white Citroën AX with French number plates (presumably to the odd Frog estate agent) and, at the end of the line, a blue Shogun four-wheel with metallic paint job.
1993	It was working perfectly back in Manchester, when you had it going up and down at the traffic lights to those schoolgirls.’
1989	Beryl's words had him at the time because they summed up his own vague feeling that what had happened and what was happening might be consequences of the old man's cynical, even malicious contrivings.
1990	It's just like Blackpool,’ snorts Tim Burgess, the recently demopped Charlatans vocalist, in his classic Brit ‘me’snarl.
1990	‘Love Lies Limp’ was a hoot in its day, ‘Life’as a deranged protest anthem and ‘Vibing Up The Senile Man’is still prone to be namechecked.
1993	‘It shows that students can reach standards of excellence that are capable of the most critical judges.
1993	Computerised telephone systems and front of house systems can be installed in any size hotel, and as well as your guests, they will make life easier for you and your staff, as  managing director of Interconnect Led, explains.
1993	A guest in the newly opened Grand amsterdam was surprised and by breakfast service.
1980	This is a very serious matter as, whether rightly or wrongly, it is the number of heads which the Sports Council when issuing grant.
1993	In an earlier case, Computer-Aided Systems (UK) Ltd. v Bolwell (1989), the mere fact that a new program had file compatibility with an earlier program written by the same people failed to the judge who considered the plaintiff's application for inspection of the defendant's program to be nothing more than a "fishing expedition" .
1993	The children must have upon them the need for personal cooperation within the classroom as essential to the variety of learning situations with which they will be faced.
1993	Does it seek to persuade, command, inform, satirise, , amuse?
1994	The romanizing aspect of Merovingian ideology seems not to have Gregory.
1994	Gregory himself did not doubt the efficacy of the saint, but clearly Leudast and his supporters were less than by the bishop's special relationship with his supernatural patron.
1993	Where non-European states and rulers were concerned there were still sometimes considerable efforts to by ostentatious display and pompous ceremonial.
1993	A hundred years earlier such an expedient might well have been used to envoys from some European state; but by the later eighteenth century it showed merely that the Indians were exotic visitors from outside the European diplomatic system who might be influenced by such essentially childish devices.
1994	Under the title A Description of the Rural Clergy, the book circulated widely in Russia and important people.
1992	Bevin, by Soviet intransigence during the foreign ministers' conference at the end of 1947, decided that the time had come for a more overt display of Western unity.
1992	Dulles, too, seemed more than Eisenhower by the British arguments, and did not always hide his anti-Nasser bias.
1993	Er, I think for management purposes and for presentation purposes, we will erm, presentation  but certainly in terms of our accounts erm, we have no option but to exempt the giving interest receivable but to erm, you with the modesty of our, of our interest and therefore how good our interest cover is.
1993	Right, so by looking at the graph, I am just trying to upon you that structural change cannot always be spotted simply by looking at the data  right, anyway, let's now  move on to estimate our first model.
1979	as visiting generals looked
1990	One of Ken's aunts had come up in the world and arrived at the cemetery wearing a fur coat which was donned purely and simply to the other members of the family.
1990	For all his sophistication, he was still a boy from Leicester and Ken saying outrageous things him greatly.
1992	‘That is true,’ said his hearers, .
1993	But the customers need to remain .
1993	We could all sit in a row behind your big table; the gravity of the situation upon him.’
1993	National styles in music can be powerful, especially when the listeners of one nation are presented with music so powerfully with what they perceive as the style of another.
1993	Mark Kelly seems to have everyone who saw him play this preseason, I hope he get's his chance to prove himself, Ireland could do backup for Dennis Irwin at right back (cue the flames for mentioning a Scum player)
1993	Others who included David O'Leary.
1993	Im with the Leeds one though…specially with the fanfare (was/is that at the start of the real record (Eye of the tiger)?).
1993	in fact im not with the guy at all: 1 simple tap-in in five games (and some good passes).
1993	Midfielder who in his first year at Elland Road making several reserve outings and being rewarded with a professional contract.
1993	Beaney continues to , his handling in the area is sound, although he wasn't really tested by any shots.
1993	Anyway Ronny scored a couple of goals in this match and was given 6 out of 6 point in Dagbladet and 9 out of 10 in VG so his form has to be excellent at the moment — i guess he will Ardiles and/or Wilko.
1993	Other non-Leeds players who have me are Terry McDermott when with Liverpool in late 70's and Jeremy Goss of Norwich this season.
1993	Of course there are always the one-off wonders, but it's the guys who do it consistently who me.
1993	Not exactly with all the chances which comes to you in the english league’ frank says.
1993	He din't really me, but — The Leeds team of the time had a great defence, I don't think Best ever scored against Paul Reaney, who he regards as his most difficult opponent.
1993	Im not — he hasnt lived up to the hype.
1993	Gary Kelly continues to too, though he missed probably the best chance of the night — he broke out in the middle of the pitch, was charging down with only Rik to beat when he nudged the ball just too far at the moment he should have shot past him.
0000	Is it true you've got just three minutes to and is it a skill that can be learned.
1990	However, my Presidency has upon me the Sea-Change in recent years of governmental policy as it affects University and College finances.
1992	Greenpeace's atmosphere campaigner, Steve Elsworth, has warned that the plan was "carefully calculated to domestic opinion in Britain" .
1986	Yet the living results of natural selection overwhelmingly us with the appearance of design as if by a master watchmaker, us with the illusion of design and planning.
1986	The purpose of this book is to resolve this paradox to the satisfaction of the reader, and the purpose of this chapter is further to the reader with the power of the illusion of design.
1986	In this chapter, I shall develop a particular factual example that I believe would any engineer, namely sonar ( "radar" ) in bats.
1989	But I do remember being by the various fathers who came home on leave and the colourful uniforms they wore, more especially those who wore the "maternity jacket" of the Royal Flying corps.
1989	I think what me most about Heywood was his absolute control of his crew and, in particular, his assurance that he was the boss, despite his tender years and meagre experience.
0000	You will appreciate that before Contracts can be exchanged I must have the insurance company's acceptance of your life proposals showing that your ages have been admitted and when you visit the Bank on Friday no doubt you will upon them that you are under pressure to exchange Contracts for your purchase and ask them to expedite the issue of the life acceptance as soon as possible.
1993	(c) Position conflicts: the position you take in one piece of litigation may be at odds with the position you want to take in a subsequent action (for example, in advancing the cause of a plaintiff you may adopt a position that puts you in difficulty with some defence clients who are less than with the vigour with which you espouse the plaintiff's cause).
1991	A rubber stamp of these headings, which you can on the last sheet of your notes on title and each of which you then tick or mark appropriately, saves undue strain on your memory.
1991	Evershed MR said that "the plaintiffs took no steps whatever…to upon anybody that there was here any important secret which they desired to preserve" .
1991	3 Whether the employer on the employee the confidentiality of the information Thus, though an employer cannot prevent the use or disclosure merely by telling the employee that certain information is confidential, the attitude of the employer towards the information provides evidence that may assist in determining whether or not the information can properly be regarded as a business secret.
1993	It has but it has to have the right tools  if it is going to provide  the safety that councillor  referred to and the saving of life which was referred to by councillor .
1994	But nonetheless, I think we as county councillors can be proud of the fact that we have set a spending target for committees, we are prepared to allow the officers to manage their departments inside the targets that have been set, and that does mean that they have to look at er, what they're spending and create priorities, and and I as a councillor am not in the least bit by arguments that paper clips have increased by five and a half percent this year, and that felt l er pe felt line erm, pens have gone up by seventeen and a half percent, I think that's largely irrelevant consideration, we're not in the business of projecting budget, we're in the business of providing money to deliver high quality services to the people of Wiltshire.
1991	I have be very interested to hear about the recent developments and most at what's taken place, but er, I would like to ask about the international work, which I understand has been reduced.
1991	He said, by the growing co-operation between so many businesses and their local communities.
0000	And he spent two days trying to this upon Forbus and Forbus went back to Arkansas and did exactly what he said he was going to do.
1994	Yeah he doesn't really try to her he makes things worse I think
1994	It was the way he was erm  as well  out of his way to them  so but they just, well you  might help
1987	An important point here is that existing school staff may have little experience of using microcomputers for information retrieval and the school librarian needs to the staff by her/his ability in using the microcomputer.
1982	The Labour Party rebuff had the ILP leaders with the difficulties of maintaining contact with the Labour movement while allied with the Communist Party.
1991	‘Does it you?’
1991	‘me?
1991	But she went on, ‘People like you don't me with your conspicuous wealth.
1991	‘I mean it people.’
1993	It wasn't as if she really needed it, as if there was anyone she wanted to …
1992	However, now that the papers had been reporting the recent news of her husband's return from Australia — apparently determined to his name and tough personality on the City of London — it was obviously about time that she came to a decision about her future.
1992	She gazed around her, in spite of her unease and her determination to appear indifferent.
1993	Steve breathed, , as they trundled up the last stretch of drive after the gates had clanked shut behind them.
1993	‘Quit using those big words to people,’ when she hadn't been aware she was using big words.
1993	You showed me all your rich man's toys — the cars, the plane, the palace — and none of them me.’
1992	I'm innocent and I'll prove it!’ she burst out passionately, but Travis didn't look .
1992	‘Who are you trying to ?’ she asked sarcastically.
1993	In an attempt to , he would resort to extravagant gestures or issue bombastic claims — though these were restricted to his close circle of intimates.
1993	Simon liked to , and having a girlfriend who was considered to be a high achiever gave him extra kudos.
1993	‘In a taxi!’ said the girl, .
1993	Jack watched him for a moment, , then winked at her and strolled off, whistling.
1991	At first she tried to be as quiet as possible as she began preparations for lunch, but after a few minutes gave up and worked normally, deciding to the moody Dr Vaughan by making dumplings to top the soup.
1991	Do you make offerings in front of it on Midsummer's Eve?’ asked Leonora, .
1993	Edward looked .
1993	He was talking about his uncle and gradually she realised that his words were meant to her.
1993	In fact,’ she went on when she could see that he didn't seem overly , ‘in fact, my parents are expecting me home today.’
1992	Junaid Hartley, Jethro Mohlala and Abel Shongwe have come from South Africa to try to Swindon Town.
1992	This is what us when we interviewed him.
1992	That didn't John Jones from Risbury in Herefordshire, who's waiting for an operation on his knees.
1992	He'd hit just 14 in his first three innings ofthe season — so was due this one to the England selectors and the tourists themselves
1993	Inside the great marquee, Mattocks roses from Nuneham Courtenay in Oxfordshire have the judges with their display, winning them a gold medal — they're not quite sure, but they think it's the 20th they've won at the show.
1993	This kind of approach as custodian of the countryside can only the green lobby — but the higher cost of organic farming means tight financial pressures on those who practice it.
1993	The thing that alwaysd me was his ability to stay calm when the going got tough
1993	And fashio event — for those who are here dressed to …
1993	These international visitors don't want to shock, only to …and give the Oxford crowd something of a fairy tale ending.
1993	They were a wonderful group who from the time they came in.
1993	He say: We would on the public this is the second attack…we would like them to come forward with whatever information they've got.
1993	He's not with the Lamont-Gregory briquette which he says is not the consistency the British market expects and adds that Indonesia and Brazil are already using a similar technique.
1993	The invention has organisations helping the deaf.
1993	The invention has so the judges of the Toshiba Year of Invention Competition, that Richard has reached the final 20, out of more than 4,000 entrants.
1993	Not only were the players out to during yesterday's televised match at the County Ground, but police say the hooligans were too.
1993	The last boy says he's not because he doesn't like vegetables.
0000	Portadown came more into the game and their backs with some with some sharp running and passing, but the Ards tackling was sound.
0000	McKibbin is due to enter hospital for an operation on his hand, while Barrett has in pre-season training.
0000	He said: ‘Inside the ring he you with his style and his marvellous technique.
0000	OMAGH TOWN 0 CRUSADERS 3 OMAGH TOWN'S cross border midweek raid for Bohemians pair Lee King and Joe Lawless, and Limerick's Noel King, failed to unbeaten Crusaders at St Julian's Road.
0000	‘Not ’
0000	What more about this Nissan is its handling ability.
0000	Whizzkid chimp fails to the City
0000	Results fail to
0000	Of all the contenders Armiger is certainly best placed to , as he is already a Group One winner and was among the favourites for the Derby until injury forced him out of the Epsom showpiece.
0000	Molby, 30, can move nearer his ambition of an international recall by Denmark manager Richard Moeller Nielsen during Liverpool's televised Anfield clash with Blackburn Rovers.
0000	‘Shearer is a player who's always me,’ said Souness.
0000	Noel Bailie: one of the Linfield players who Benny Johannsen during his spy mission
0000	Molby, 30, can move nearer his ambition of an international recall by Denmark manager Richard Moeller Nielsen during Liverpool's televised Anfield clash with Blackburn Rovers.
0000	‘Shearer is a player who's always me,’ said Souness.
0000	He said: ‘Inside the ring he you with his style and his marvellous technique.
0000	Virginia Bottomley: Fails to .
0000	Matthew Casson, 14, was chosen as one of only six finalists in the North of England in the Sainsbury's Future Cooks Awards after his winning recipes judges.
0000	Gehan Mendis had fallen to Mark Ilott's second ball of the day, with the left-armer also hoping to Gooch before the England captain joins his fellow selectors on Saturday night to pick the team for next week's Second Test against Australia.
0000	Reed has taken his chance to and win the place that might have gone to England's Wade Dooley, who has returned home after the death of his father.
0000	‘Kenny's contributions and success at Crewe us greatly and he also has a reasonable knowledge of the local non-League scene.
0000	Ex-union boss stole cash to his friends
0000	MY party of visitors to the new Museum of Liverpool Life were less than with the Brookside exhibit.
0000	Brynamlwg hope that student's Dominic Farr and Vijen Patel can bolster the batting against visitors Gwerinwyr while spinner Khabar Abbas also gets a chance to .
0000	John Major…
0000	Dave Morpfee again as he bagged 3–33 to set up Bangor for a response of 111–5, Hefin Lewis, Andy Savage and John Parry all scoring 23 as Ruthin's John James pocketed 4–29.
0000	Joanna Mahony with a class under-17 400m hurdles win in 44.2 seconds, as did her Wirral colleague Sophie Cocker and Sefton's Helen McNamara in a fine senior 400 metres race won by Sophie by one-fifth of a second in 57.4 seconds.
0000	Leonard was in a chirpy, ‘play anywhere for a Test match’ mood, saying: ‘Every game on tour gives me and others the chance to .’
0000	And just in case any men out there still need to be convinced that cleanliness is next to Robert Redfordness, how about the tale of a friend of mine who was desperate to a woman he had been pursuing for weeks.
0000	ON Monday night in London four of Darlington's brightest bands appear at the highly trendy Orange Club in West Kensington, hoping to a crowd of business executives.
0000	Elizabeth Couzins offers wet pulp, textured Icons; Dionne Inglis provides a complex wall relief that contrasts Modern versus Classical and Jack Lever rope into the wet paper pulp to produce both the corrugated orange Beyond and the turquoise circle Whole.
0000	So was it with the Darlington operation that it also adopted the design of the questionnaire and the logo.
0000	‘There is a possibility he could sign for us, depending upon a full recovery and whether he manager Alan Murray.’
0000	Boro have agreed a fee of around £300,000 should Gittens in a hectic cup and League programme.
0000	With Crosby looking to offload a number of his professionals before the deadline the players have an ideal opportunity to potential buyers.
0000	Calvert's Ruffside Rock, which has also at Sunderland, has been drawn in trap one for the March Puppy Stakes, over 460 metres, and the danger looks like being Shawfield-based wind runner Cocoa Powder, out of trap four.
0000	But he has now linked up with Scarborough and has McHale during training and in the 2–2 friendly draw at Hyde United on Monday night.
0000	McHale revealed: ‘Basically, it's down to them to come here and .
0000	The Posh are making a strong promotion challenge and their experienced, hard-running side knocked Liverpool out of the Rumbelows League Cup and in defeat against Middlesbrough.
0000	Boro did not against Bristol.
0000	Boro did not .
0000	Ferguson moved to Kuwait, where he first met and Crosby, who was just embarking on a coaching career.
0000	Visitors to Bowes can see the Silver Swan go through its ‘elaborate motions’ twice a day as 12.30pm and 4pm, just as it Mark Twain more than a century ago.
0000	Manchester City were just one of the clubs by his aggressive style a style which helped dump the Frist Division side out of the Rumbelows League Cup and FA Cup at Ayresome Park.
0000	And he admits to being by new housing partnerships between the public and private sectors on projects which could not have been built without the co-operation of both parties.
0000	‘We found it was very easy to come up with agreements that said nothing, but would the folks back home and the media,’ said Mr Goodwin.
0000	The way local people used the facilities at Kirkleatham Hall School for pupils with learning difficulties the assessors.
0000	Meanwhile, spitting passengers on the Tyneside Metro and a beggar bothering passers-by in Durham did not Mr Gregory, who travelled incognito to check up on politeness.
0000	She won her place after the charity with an essay about herself and how she could benefit others.
0000	The pair at the British Association Science Fair with their geology project.
0000	But clearly those who don't him will be out of the door.
0000	Keegan said: ‘I've told players that if they are not in the first team here they can always somebody else.’
0000	Reed, 16, is the latest product of the Quakers' youth policy, and has Hankin in youth and reserve games.
0000	The trialist is with Scarborough for the rest of the campaign and is keen to manager Ray McHale in a bid to earn a contract.
0000	So far no party has really Jim but he will vote for the Tories on April 9, more to keep Labour out than the Conservatives in.
0000	‘I have on the Home Office the importance of getting more police officers into urban areas of the county like Darlington,’ said Mr Fallon.
0000	A precise, poignant production of the last play in John Byrne's trilogy Joseph Farrell
0000	As always they will go to businesses and organisations whose support for various aspects of the arts throughout 1992 has most the ABSA judges who get down to the business of sifting through hundreds of entries early next month.
0000	Then those companies which the judges will be justifiably lauded for their efforts.
0000	On the other hand, the Diary was less than to get such a list from one of Scotland's newer agencies detailing containing one horrendous spelling error.
0000	When it comes to the S-word we are all experts, whatever Margi Clarke may say, and we defy even the great Ken Branagh to us.
0000	What most Best about Scotland's showing was their lineout play.
0000	Grant
0000	‘Our visit has us with the skill and the quality of our soldiers, and with the risks they run.
0000	The scene at the offices of BAeSEMA, the hi-tech computer design group, may have been more like a Blue Peter set than a serious example of the latest in navy design, but Adml Eaton appeared suitably .
0000	NADIA KARMALI, a 12-year-old exchange student from British Columbia, has not taken long to her teachers and fellow pupils at St Mary's School, Melrose.
0000	Its determination to change the emphasis of the company from the traditional — and successful — red meat business to the unknown area of quality meat products the judges by its bravery.
0000	‘It was a very big figure to come out with right at the death and probably didn't the institutions,’ he added.
0000	In spite of the 190bhp power output capable of taking the little car from standstill to 60mph in under seven seconds and on to double the UK speed limit, it is that smoothness and flexibility that rather than the muscle.
0000	While existing premium products were considered adult they were, says Bartle, thought to be all about formal occasions, badge values and others.
0000	Stewart made just one error with the gloves on a day of sweat and toil — failing to hold a difficult leg-side catch offered by Aravinda DeSilva on 74 off Devon Malcolm — but also with the handling of his bowlers.
0000	It has been Matthaeus and the older heads who have in recent months, however.
0000	Doddie Weir may have to at training today to force his way in among the forwards, who held a lineout session with assistant coach John Jeffrey at Happy Valley last night.
0000	The 6ft 7in Trinidad strike bowler Love when playing for Harrogate last season and the paceman is almost certain to feature in next month's warm-up games against Durham.
0000	It's all about trying to .
0000	One boy has been caught pinching his classmates' property; stealing to his pals.
0000	The ideas and concepts of the prison structure in Scotland — outlined in a speech at the conference by Alan Walker, the deputy chief executive of the SPS — so a Latvian delegation that they wrote to Scotland's Minister of State, Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, asking his permission for Walker to visit the country.
1993	The point of the delegation is to upon er selected countries, the importance which a representative group like Chogram Chogram believes er is important.
0000	It will have nothing to do with the lecture but simply to those that my vocabulary is very wide.
1991	Although I remained  resolute that my partnership with Charlie would come to an end the moment I was offered a place at university, I still believed that with his energy and drive, combined with my level-headed approach in all matters financial, we would surely have my father and perhaps even Granpa Charlie.
1993	An hour later, Joffre's second-in-command, General de Castelnau, arrived with three other generals to upon him the urgency of the situation at Verdun.
1993	During the worst weeks of the Verdun fighting, de Castelnau Colonel Repington (the elephantine Times correspondent who, in between the purveyance of social tittle-tattle from one dining table to another, was a fairly astute military critic) on his way to dine at the Ritz, with the words: ‘Rather than accept slavery at German hands the French race would die upon the battlefield.’
1993	One of them was a thoughtful, gangly young man called Charles de Gaulle, who, so was he by Pétain's teachings, applied on leaving St. Cyr to join the regiment then under his command, the 33rd.
1993	The stonewall defence, the deadly concentrated firepower of his troops in the retreat from the frontiers, and then at the Marne, friend and foe alike.
1993	Before the offensive began he had tried in vain to this upon his superiors.
1993	On returning, dazed and by the sheer ineffectualness of man amid this inferno of mat–riel, Jubert wrote humbly:
1993	When there was a party, it often ended in the complete sacking of the local hotel; which simultaneously shocked and the more orderly French pilots.
1983	Surprise, being : You were  first  All of them
1993	But he could face competition from a young North Wales amateur who Robins' boss Brian Flynn in a 3-2 Midland Senior League win over Tranmere Rovers yesterday afternoon.
1993	The Rosenborg left back played in an A-team game this week and has boss Graeme Souness.
1993	However, with Grobbelaar approaching full fitness after his hamstring injury, and James determined to make his mark at Liverpool, Hooper knows he'd have to in order to keep his place in the team.
1993	‘Even when I'm playing in the reserves it's a chance to ,’ he said.
1993	However, with Grobbelaar approaching full fitness after his hamstring injury, and James determined to make his mark at Liverpool, Hooper knows he'd have to in order to keep his place in the team.
1993	‘Even when I'm playing in the reserves it's a chance to ,’ he said.
1993	Dave Kennedy, Wirral council's deputy director of housing and environmental protection, said the project had top civil servants in the Department of the Environment.
1993	Bruce Grobbelaar is still fighting to shake off a hamstring strain in time for tomorrow's Anfield clash with Middlesbrough, but manager Graeme Souness could be tempted to continue with Mike Hooper, who against Spartak.
1993	Mr Major wants to on President Delors the importance of the Commission exercising its authority over the Gatt crisis.
1993	Perkins, 17, schoolboy son of Burscough boss Russ, Stoke manager Lou Macari and is all set for another week in the Potteries over Christmas.
1993	The youngest person on air is thirteen-year-old Kate Johnstone, who so the team with her views on relationships that she was asked to star in front of the cameras.
0000	Mind you, we did have a little exotica in our small North Harrow branch [apart from Molly, Betty etc. at the Christmas party]; there was Swiss Knorr's French Onion soup for the daring housewife, and if a customer really wanted to her dinner guests, then we had small tins of pâté de fois gras.
1993	One thing which did was the cleanliness of everything.
1993	And the improvements it has produced at the Bridgwater, UK, company, which makes high technology flexible packaging material, have already several key customers.
1991	It has a modern bistro feel, and in a short time catering manager Debbie Ferrie and her staff have with their food.
1991	The facilities, which include a gymnasium and recreation rooms, certainly CCG's Mike Farquharson, who mobilised operations in October of last year.
1991	Pip has never really thought about his features until this point and from then on wants to be a gentleman because he has instantly fallen in love with Estella and wants to her, and make her love him.
1984	A member of the Drayton class who was attending ante-natal classes demonstrated to other participants the best way of standing up after floorwork, and greatly the class tutor.
1984	The proceedings were watched by Michael Crook, principal Adult Education Organiser for Norfolk, along with other AE officers, Peter Softly of Norwich Sports Council, mentioned particularly how he had been by the day.
1984	What seemed to Audrey most, however, was not a dance at all, but a wonderfully rhythmical performance by a Nepalese drummer using his hands and feet to beat his nine drums.
1987	is Head of Department at the London College of Dance and Drama at Bedford and everyone who experienced her sessions at last year's Movement and Dance Day in the Eastern Region.
1993	Even though she feared him, she respected him and was always trying to him.
1992	Erm  asking for permission to put their names forward  and from the, the few letters we had  the, this was  that we thought was the whitest knights  in terms of Geography  in terms of sex  in terms of I wouldn't say intelligence, perhaps I should try to them!
1992	Well personally I mean  erm  Margaret me greatly but I think  John was  inclined to be full of his own importance for one thing.
1992	Well  with
1991	?
1992	She, probably try and on us how hard she worked.
1992	I mean, it looks nice it's  see I'm impressed with her  I must admit, with her.
1991	Try to .
1992	Well do you think this really er Lisa?
1991	She got herself a job in Reading college, she got somebody to take her down there and  a place to get an English A Level, and Mary said it's a thing with her she wants to get this English A Level cos her father had one and she feels that is she could get and English A Level it would him, he, she spends her life trying to her father who doesn't really takes much notice of her,.
1992	Wasn't me , best !
1992	cos your not are you?
1992	oh of course, he's got to hasn't he?
1992	were, were you by Rich, were you with Sarah's, sorry with Lorraine's immaculate humour?, but I'm sure you're more impressed with her immaculate assets
1992	Not always, not always but he was er
1992	Oh and if he said it once well he said it half a dozen times  trying to me.
1992	Well I don't know whether this will like Win when he gets in.
1991	well .
1991	It's good, it's got a ca , well !
1991	cos  to be really eager because  she said erm  that she'd asked the bloke about staying on permanently and everything  and he said that it seemed the people who they were most with after Christmas that can stay on permanently  so we said on the end, you've gotta be really eager and everything  so she apparently was asking loads of questions
1992	I didn't see Willie the new girl.
1992	He just, he, I think he just tries to people you know.
1992	The Father came out this morning to say that the hall could, one of the first things Father told him was that the hall couldn't be insured, I mean it even staggered erm  Doris , cos she's not heard of that before, , I don't know what is, but
1992	on them that you don't wanna come out with it short.
1994	It's where  to pay to money, and you're having to go to the bank manager, what would he ask for? the business plan, and you'd have to draw that up and do all the  and you have to the bank manager before he will even consider an overdraft facility, or whatever, a loan.
1993	Yeah because the document's going back to Shanghai and he wants to
1994	Um Thomas Carlisle um wen was very much by the work of people like Wordsworth and Coleridge because they were just a bit before him and he actually went and met Coleridge.
1993	Erm the gentleman who took us round who was excellent er what me was the fact that it was no sort of straight patters one gets with guides you know when you go round these places.
1993	Well yes and they were it was you know the What me also you know what it's like when you go to these places I can remember going not so long ago to Blenheim and er just about to examine something and this thundering voice coming down the hallway, Do not touch.
1994	You've always been dependent on other people, being with what you've done, or the, before you've got any pay rises.
1992	The recommendations are contained in section five and five one C effectively the assistance of Policy Committee in addressing the need to sustain at least the current level of spending of three point nine million on these small but vital schemes throughout the period of the medium term plan.
1992	That's it an approved credit guideline and er that is the problem at the moment that the approved er credit guideline for the non T S G schemes is really insufficient and is having to be propped up er from elsewhere within the budget, your Chairman yesterday met with the er gentleman er the suited gentleman from Bedford and, and er having er given them appropriate cups of coffee er, upon them that the er the one point two was really insufficient for one or two million er, er credit approvals was really insufficient for the needs of Suffolk and er they went away did they not Chairman saying that they er appreciated the point whether you had success or not or perhaps to er wait until December?
1992	and what I was a really with  he, he balanced the, the human, what he felt were the human strengths of the school  what it felt like  you know, what the people were like in it  and erm  I think that's made his decision  more difficult  because he hasn't just gone on  the ec the academic side of it  he looked at the, the all round  aspects of it.
1993	Cos I think he's sort of realized now that nobody's particularly by him taking six grammes and  twelve Es at once and going oh I took six grammes of  and twelve Es at once and I was really fucked.
1993	Erm he, he said oh yeah she'll do that cos someone cool will come and she'll want to them.
1993	No he's, he's, he's just out to people, I mean he looks around to see if you're watching him  and he'll erm  no, yeah he's acting the whole time, I don't really, I don't know if he knows who he is you know?
1993	because of a girl, I really think he's loyal in that way, in that sense, because they are very close  they have a laugh and I know when we're with them they're always like seem to be everyone but I'm sure when they're together they have like, you know,human conversations , they must do, they can't always be talking about  screwing and  you know, which girls have got big tits and all that
1993	Like   in the derm , I mean the dorm, dorm  and she goes  oh I'm going out with Tim   are you .
1992	No I wasn't, no I wasn't in the least bit with it.
1992	You know, that does nay me a lot.
1993	and they were such a load of dicks when we first met, you know, and they're just like trying to all the time  and now I mean you've been here for, what, a year and, year and a bit and
1993	He said, he's not , and er, I think the idea that go   at a meeting today,
0000	The project has the building workers.
0000	Arsenal hold the Maceeter trophy but were watched at Wolves last week by Vengloss , keen to on his first test in English football.
0000	But he must be all too aware that it won't the Soviet citizens facing economic crisis, and waiting in the food queues, nor will it immediately resolve the ethnic problems which beset him.
0000	Clearly, her first attempts at national reconciliation have no-one.
0000	What me was the design was great, but the objects, the books as things.
0000	Like very many other people, and this theme runs right through the length of European intellectual life, Russell was, he was delighted with mathematics when he first encountered it, erm immensely by the certainty of its propositions, as so many other people had been, erm troubled a bit by the logical inadequacy of much of the mathematics that he was presented with, especially at Cambridge, and investing mathematics with a kind of Platonic aura.
