1990	Jessie was small and hunched, like a white-haired mouse, hardly visible beneath the garments she carried.
1990	Anyone who thinks Claire is sincere must have a brain smaller than a mouse dropping.
1990	She's as poor as a church mouse, that's why she has to come to Arthur and Margot's in the holidays.’
1991	Before storing apples and pears, check that the store is free from mice and that the trays are thoroughly clean.
1991	Mice, too, are best caught in traps tucked beneath slates or inside lengths of pipe to avoid injuring birds.
1991	Wood mice make short work of fruit crops
1991	Maybe I'm an owl, watching the other owls screech down on helpless little mice, but I won't forsake my  vegetarian principles.
1991	And that I'm not — a toothless harvest mouse?
1990	(Leonard also kept white rats and mice — even as late as his thirties, when on the Greek island of Hydra.)
1991	Of spiders which squatted on the floor, then criss-crossed my face, hairily, of mice which scampered in the wardrobe and of lizards, steely blue and green.
1991	Working with Raúl Hemández-Peón, he also showed that the auditory ERPs generated in the neurons in the cat's ear almost disappeared when a salient visual stimulus, for example a mouse, was brought into the cat's field of view.
1991	Ashton's design for Pepe, the dog, in The Wedding Bouquet was bettered when he created the Town and Bad Mice, Pigling Bland and the other animals in the film The Tales of Beatrix Potter .
1991	From the kiln they are laid out and raked on the pressing floor and packed into the tall sacks with Mickey Mouse ears known in the trade as pockets.
1983	Cat and mouse has no less force, in this fated relationship, than moth and candle-flame.
1991	Data could pop up in boxes around the screen, and in due course graphics, mice and icons led us into the wimps era (window, icon, menu, pointer).
1991	One command-line switch will make use of a maximum of 512K of expanded memory, either EMS 3.2 or 4.0; another will put overlays into extended memory; a third disables the ‘degree of freedom’ facility for errors in curve fitting, and a fourth can be used to disable a mouse even if one if fitted and nominally active.
1991	Other modification options include video mode, in the unlikely event that hardware has been incorrectly read, mouse response speed adjustment, EMS/help arrangements, printer selection, setting of a user option for function key F3 and so on.
1991	In all of these processes, table or graphic, a Micro-Soft-compatible mouse can be used for screen navigation, graphic manipulation help screen calls, item selection, and menu operation.
1991	This is principally because the mouse can roll in  four directions to replicate the equivalent +,—, * and /keyboard commands to zoom and relocate the graphics.
1991	Using a mouse is very convenient — but some might prefer the keyboard.
1991	MicroSoft-compatible mouse can be used.
1989	DISNEY WORLD, home to Mickey Mouse, 101 Dalmatians and all manner of furry creatures, has been charged with beating wild vultures to death and illegally trapping other protected birds.
1989	BENEATH the hype, Mickey Mouse, the Magic Kingdom and the publicity that has led to more than 100,000 people already enquiring about Eurodisney shares in the UK alone, there remains a disconcerting truth about this international share offer.
1989	Frank Wells, president of the Walt Disney company, arrived with Minnie Mouse, and Jim Cora, executive vice president of Eurodisney, with Donald Duck.
1989	But where was Mickey Mouse?
1989	It happened during one of Mrs Mouse's musical evenings.
1989	One minute a well-behaved group of us — writers, intellectuals and so forth— were contentedly watching Zelda Plum dancing with the chinchilla on her head while Ken the Australian Horse Player offered odds ('Six to four the rat,’ he used to say, I do not know why, and on this particular evening the rat escaped and tripped up Robin Fox, London's most distinguished theatrical agent, who fell on top of Wales's friend, the actress Susan George) and the next a squad of hooligans were pushing people around and conjuring a piece of pot from Mrs Mouse's sewing basket.
1989	‘Don't be like that,’ said Mr Pilcher, and he then gave me to understand that for an unspecified weekly consideration I could purchase his protection, allowing me and Mrs Mouse to continue with our musical evenings without their being gate-crashed by him and his colleagues.
1989	Eurodisney share offering is no Mickey Mouse operation: Eurodisney's share offer has drawn crowds but is not one for widows and orphans
1989	THE fact that Mickey Mouse did not turn up in London for the announcement of Eurodisney's share price, preferring to battle it out with anti-Disney demonstrators in Paris, shows where the focus of the Europe-wide issue is.
1989	That cosmopolitan mouse Mickey is a roaring success, it seems, much to the chagrin of Warburgs, one of the sponsors of the Eurodisney float.
1989	He once went five and a half years unbeaten and he is still as modest as a mouse.
1989	Unlike Felix the Cat or Mickey Mouse, brought to life in motion pictures, Asterix started off in a comic strip.
1989	Decorating and bedlinen designs are a choice of ‘Dancing Bows’ with ducks and mice, or ‘Noah's Friend’with elephants, tigers and zebras.
1991	Wood mouse
1991	The wood mouse (or long-tailed field mouse)apodemus sylvaticus is around three inches long with a tail of about the same length.
1987	The wall, the wainscot and the mouse.
1990	As she ate  Maltesers from the box on her knee, apparently engrossed in the antics of Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck or pluto her left hand seemed not to know what her right was doing.
1990	We know that David's mother is neither Carol nor Ann, who bought the popcorn, nor is she Jean, whilst Meg is Simon's mother, so David's mother must be Helen, and they therefore saw Mickey Mouse .
1990	Mice.
1990	I had to try and get a bit of kip on the crumbling sofa with a torch in one hand and a big bit of four by two in the other, ready to whack any of the mice if they came out to get us.
1990	Every little noise we thought was another assault wave of killer mice.
1990	We complained to Malcolm, told him we were fed up with the mice and we didn't have enough money to eat properly.
1991	Um, he says, and goes on to explain that in Norway a small, useless knife sometimes seen about the person of hunters and campers who have little idea is known as a ‘mouse castrator’.
1991	Chula took Rudd to various pre-war motor races, and he spent his school holidays at the White Mouse garage in Hammersmith, helping to clean their ERAs and absorbing the atmosphere.
1990	0600 spotted Cat's Ear opens 0700 African Marigold opens 0800 Mouse Ear Hawkweed opens 0900 Prickly Sowthistle closes 1000 Common Nipple Wort closes 1100 Star of Bethlehem opens 1200 Passion Flower opens 1300 Childing Pink closes 1400 Scarlet Pimpernel closes 1500 Hawkbit closes 1600 Small Bindweed closes 1700 White Water Lily closes 1800 Evening Primrose opens
1990	Its readability partly consists in the enthusiasm which has already been mentioned, and in the liveliness and unexpectedness of the examples: the comparison of Boiardo's fantasies with Mickey Mouse; the likening of Spenser's Radigund to Simla memsahibs in Kipling.
1990	‘* The practice of confession brought before Lewis the drama of redemption as a perpetual game of cat and mouse with the Devil — the Enemy.
1991	Both sides have a point: some foxes kill lambs, poultry and game, and some foxes are guilty of no crime greater than the dispatching of mice and earthworms.
1990	For all that The Mouse on the Moon (1963) is a slight film, its satirical swipes at the unprogressive nature of British institutions and the nation's difficulty in coming to terms with its global insignificance do find their target.
1991	‘This outfit is very cartoonish, very Mickey Mouse, and I like that.
1991	‘He made the ears out of an old pair of mouse ears I'd used for a previous party,’ she says.
1989	Little applications make a high-pitched ‘clink’ when probed with the mouse, big ones a beefier ‘clunk’.
1989	When you use the mouse to drag an icon to a new position, in copying a file for example, the sonic feedback continues.
1989	The US Food and Drug Administration announced earlier this month that it was likely to initiate a ban against farm use of the antibiotic — known as sulfamethazine in the US — because two laboratory studies linked it to thyroid cancer in rats and mice.
1989	Of course, Atari has not cut the price of its ST micro for two years, but at least the raw 520ST-FM has a powerful 16/32-bit Motorola 68000 processor, 512K of memory, upgraded 720K disc drive and a mouse.
1989	The Amiga also has a Motorola 68000, 512K, a built-in 3.5 inch disc drive and a mouse, but it has much better colour graphics and sound.
1989	Disc boxes and mouse mats are good stocking fillers, but what about something with a bit of class?
1989	For the mouse owner, what about a Mouse Cleaning Kit from Accodata for £15.95, or a cover made in imitation fur in the shape of a mouse — Terra's Furry Mouse House?
1989	‘Rochdale are just Mickey Mouse compared with Liverpool.’
1989	The Mouse And His Cold by Russell Hoban LINDSAY MACKIE (mother of Isabella, 6, and Lizzy, 3) PAGE wom
1989	IWAS looking at them uncomprehendingly; they were eyeing me like a cat watches a captured mouse that might yet try to make a dash for freedom.
1989	He admires the old classic musicals for their spectacle if not their storyline, and says that Vincente Minelli ‘had a camera like a hawk after a mouse’.
1989	While others were being lionised he conducted himself like a lamb or even a mouse.
1989	A long pause followed, and then she said tartly: ‘A mouse’.
1989	As a child of the Thirties I heard much talk of J.P.M. and Fred Shaw (the NCLC Organiser), Plebs and the Railway Service Journal — and the Manchester Guardian — were as much a part of my youthful literary life as Mickey Mouse and Film Fun.
1989	Consignments of his nutty bushwackers are on their way to UK gift shops to compete with fir-cones in frocks and teasel mice.
1990	REGRESSIVE ROCK: the enemy is not a new breed of post-punk dinosaurs, but of post-punk mice, or voles.
1991	Meanwhile, at the Boston University School of Medicine, Gladys Friedler has been studying the offspring from the pairing of healthy female mice with male mice that have been briefly exposed to chemicals about a week before mating.
1991	Still other male mice spent a single four-hour period inhaling nitrous oxide before being put with females (none of which had been exposed to hazardous chemicals).
1991	Mouse pups born in Dr Friedler's laboratory weighed less at birth and failed to grow or mature as fast as those born of fathers treated (for the sake of comparison) with either salt-water injections or compressed air.
1991	When they are eight weeks old, for example, mouse pups that have been conditioned using mild electric shocks to their feet readily learn to swim through a simple water maze.
1991	But mice sired by fathers that had been given morphine learn more slowly.
1991	When Dr Friedler injected morphine into the offspring of mouse fathers who had themselves breathed nitrous oxide, the body temperature of the offspring dropped less than was expected.
1991	Could Dali be the Catalan answer, at last, to Mickey Mouse?
1991	WHEN it was published in a journal called Cell in April 1986, ‘Altered Repertoire of Endogenous Immunoglobulin Gene Expression in Transgenic Mice Containing a Rearranged Mu Heavy Chain Gene’ did not seem to be the stuff of history.
1988	He does go some way towards outlining counter-arguments and replies, but his style is the playful one of a cat with a mouse.
1991	On the other hand, the most important person, the cameraman, wore jeans and a Micky Mouse T-shirt, over which his mournful, deadpan moon face shone incongruously.
1991	She was a small, emaciated mouse who wore a perpetually martyred expression.
1989	‘I made the cage for my mice.’
1989	He wondered if the mice were white.
1989	When they said he couldn't have a parrot he'd said ‘Well, mice, then, white ones,’ but his Dad had said he couldn't have them either.
1989	He bet he hadn't got any white mice either.
1989	On the table was a cage with two white mice clinging to the top.
1989	He did have white mice.
1991	Klepner played the usual corporate cat and mouse game of making at least one or two word changes on each and every page so that his own secretary could re-type each page under her initials and the initials ‘FK’.
1991	It was like cat and mouse trying to keep up with him.
1991	Or the mice.
1991	That last evening, as unable to settle I wandered round the house, the computer within which insists on running hither and thither matching like with like (laying its finds before us like a cat presenting a dead mouse) now threw up the words of a hymn from long ago.
1991	Look at the flap they've created — children being evacuated, all neatly labelled and toting Mickey Mouse gasmasks, sandbags blocking the streets…‘
1990	Vernon Hartshorn, then a Derbyshire MP and a South Wales miners' leader, asked in the Mouse of Commons:
1991	He was a pleasant chap with blond curls and a Mickey Mouse tee shirt on.
1992	The charity isn't a ‘Mickey Mouse’ outfit by any means — our constitution is being verified by the Charity Commissioners at the moment, and we've been informed that there's no problem with being granted trust status.
1992	My suggestion that mice — or even rats — would be more suitable went unheard — they were too busy arguing over breeds.
1990	At Edinburgh's Institute for Animal Physiology and Genetics, human genes were introduced into mice and sheep which then produced valuable human proteins, including easily retrievable blood-clotting agents and insulin.
1990	Experimental mice the ‘SCID-hu mice’(Severe Combined Immune Deficient human tissue mice), which can transmit genetic information for HIV into their offspring have been cultured in America: a potential boon for AIDS research.
1991	Saturday finds us enjoying our last day in North America in the company of Mickey Mouse and friends at Disneyland.
1991	Mice and fisherwomen in Welsh costume made by retired farmer's wife Edith Rees, sell like hot cakes at her local church and school fêtes.
1991	The local trading standards officer says Mrs Rees could be prosecuted if her mouse novelties or toys are sold at the fete as usual.
1991	They object to a little cotton apron on the mice which is made from a baby's dress — it was suitable for a baby but not for a stuffed mouse to wear!’
1990	It reminded him of dogs with wet coats, or very old people, or mouse droppings.
1991	I would have kept my presence of mind if the mouse, disturbed by all the commotion, hadn't actually jumped into my welly.
1968	I am not a mouse, she thought, and I will not stand by and watch this idiocy.
1990	as if someone like me should have sat there quietly like a mouse, demure and repressed!
1991	So I drew them one by one —— Skippetty Rabbit, his wife Gillian, Brownie the Bear, Prowler the Wolf, Fido the Pup, Sly Fox, Piney Cone the Pine Marten, Longtail and Short Tail the Mice, and Bill Mouse with his wife Sue.
1991	All the children wanted pictures of Mickey Mouse.
1991	Nothing else would do, all other mice were imposters.
1991	Now Mickey Mouse is Walt Disney's creation.
1991	I can't draw in other people's styles, and I turned out particularly inane Mickey Mice.
1991	Still the customers called for Mickey Mouse (with the blessed exception of mischievous tinker children who asked for horses and donkeys).
1991	All that day and all the next day, I was doomed to draw Mickey Mouse again and again.
1991	When he received a Mickey Mouse, he swelled triumphantly, and asked for another.
1991	‘We're in the same business,’ I said, and told him about my Mickey Mouse job.
1991	After an invigorating gaze at the rushing rivers, I returned to the Mickey Mice.
1991	During a pause between Mice, I noticed a poorly-dressed woman pick up a twenty-pound note in surprise.
1991	They all wanted pictures of Mickey Mouse, too!
1991	News travels fast in Navan, and next day there were twice as many children as before, all demanding Mickey Mouse.
1991	As nearly all the children had freckles, I felt as if I were seeing spots before my eyes, and drew Mickey Mice in a trance, my hand and pen moving mechanically through a misty ocean of freckles, wave upon wave, every freckle asking for Mickey Mouse.
1991	These kind visitors received animals that were not Mickey Mouse.
1991	Apparently, a day or so before my arrival, the children of Navan had been entertained at the centre by a man dressed-up as Mickey Mouse.
1989	Walt Disney once revealed that his key discovery, making it possible to animate his Mickey Mouse and other cinematograph drawings, was not the technique of hinging and synchronising the limbs to move at 24 frames per second.
1986	The obvious question to ask would be: why do mice give birth to mice and elephants to elephants?
1986	Instead, Mendel was concerned, as most geneticists since, with the causes of the differences between fairly similar organisms — between brown and white mice, or, in Mendel's case, between tall and short peas.
1986	For example, if a first-generation hybrid between a brown and an albino mouse is crossed back to an albino, the offspring will be in the ratio 1 brown to 1 albino: if two hybrids are mated to one another , the ratio will be 3 brown to 1 albino.
1986	The difficulty is best explained by contrast with a eukaryotic species — for example the house mouse,Mus musculus .
1986	If we knew enough and could identify all the individual animals alive, say, one hundred million years ago which were ancestral to existing mice, we would expect to find those animals all belonging to a single species (although, if we went back far enough, we might not call that species a house mouse).
1986	Similarly, if we could trace back the ancestry of all the genes in existing mice, through successive replications, for the same long period, we would expect to find those genes in animals belonging to a single species.
1986	Thus there is a group of genes — mouse genes — which recombine with each other, but not with genes from unrelated animals.
1986	This raises the  possibility that the genes present today in the chromosome of E. coli have not all been derived from the same ancestral population in the distant past — as have the genes of mice — but have come from very distantly related ancestors.
1986	A mouse without its cortex is not strikingly different in behaviour from a normal mouse: a man with no cortex is a vegetable.
1992	At one point in Maus II, Vladek's wife Anja plays a murderous game of hide-and-seek, chased up and down the bunk beds of a vast, empty Auschwitz barracks by a guard reduced in close-up to a pair of vicious piggy eyes above a snarling snout (Poles are pigs in a world where Jews are mice efficiently exterminated by German cats).
1992	On the rare occasions when one of these mice stops to contemplate the future, it is nearly always a mother hugging her child, staring directly out of the frame with baleful black-ringed eyes in an otherwise expressionless triangular white face.
1992	Newly arrived prisoners are stripped, shaved and showered, revealing skinny, shivering, vulnerable men's bodies beneath their mouses' heads.
1992	There are only the most macabre nursery overtones to these mice waiting — naked or in striped concentration camp pyjamas — to be shot, starved, clubbed or gassed.
1992	It is therefore an appalling error of judgment for Terence Cuneo, who painted the official picture of this awesome ceremony, to introduce his ‘signature’— a vivid green mouse — sitting by the throne.
1992	And at the end she did Hugo Wolf's Maus fallen Spruchlein, in which a child sings to a mouse to lure it into her mousetrap.
1992	A SWINDON publican has been forced by the Walt Disney Corporation to abandon a Mickey Mouse theme for his public house, named Cartoons, because of copyright enfringement.
1992	Instead he uses his elongated sentence constructions to great effect, looping coils of verbal rope around his inquisitors until so weighed down with sub-clauses, extended definitions and qualifications they lose both the beginning and the end, leaving them like Sir Robin, spluttering and blinking crossly; an elderly and bad-tempered owl offered a rubber mouse to play with.
1992	The message was likewise enlarged: the young Kinnock and his family escaping from cockroaches and mice —‘you never forget the smell of damp’— into the prefab paradise of the post-war Attlee government.
1992	You click on to the icons with a mouse to go from the word processor to a spreadsheet or to send a fax.
1992	In a paper published this month in Nature by Dr Shigekazu Nagata from the Osaka Bioscience Institute in Japan, it was found that a strain of mice long known to suffer from auto-immune disease lacks a working version of a gene called Fas.
1992	But they can be slow to use, and many experienced users prefer the keyboard shortcuts they provide rather than the laborious use of mouse and pull-down menus.
1992	Here, computer-illiterate small-time capitalists can commit gaffes, like holding the mouse upside down, without being seen.
1992	Tracker balls, either production models or specially adapted versions, can be much easier to control than a mouse.
1992	IN A sudden descent resembling the hurtle down Big Thunder Mountain, the price of shares in Euro Disney, the Mickey Mouse Paris theme park, plunged on the stock exchange yesterday.
1992	Government scientists found traces of alphachloralose, a strictly controlled pesticide used to kill rats, mice and pigeons.
1992	The Trojan mouse is throwing a party
1992	This giant jamboree heralds the moment on Sunday when, at one minute past nine — Mickey Mouse time — the gates of Euro Disney will be flung open to the general public.
1992	To help them get the most favourable impression, special staff have been brought in to elevate Disney's standard cuisine of burgers, chips and Mickey Mouse pizzas.
1992	They perceive Euro Disney as undermining French values and Mickey — the French never use the rodent's surname — as some sort of Trojan mouse of American cultural imperialism.
1992	The mouse is still smiling — just.
1992	A tutorial is included to familiarise users with the pictorial symbols and with using a ‘mouse’.
1992	Together with a 50MB hard disk, 2MB of memory, Super VGA colour monitor, mouse, DOS and windows the new machine will become Elonex's entry-level up-gradeable computer, with a price tag of about £925.
1992	Euro Disney opens its £2bn theme for a dream Wary French make the Mickey Mouse connection Jenny Rees joins first-day visitors to the Enchanted Kingdom
1992	Mr Ralph had taken his children to the Disney resort in Florida because he thought they would enjoy it, but he had fallen in love with Mickey Mouse himself.
1992	‘Mickey Mouse was Walt Disney's alter ego,’ he said.
1992	Diesel Cars: Playing ‘cat’ and mouse over fleets
1992	If hundreds of thousands of Mickey Mouse fans choose to celebrate their preference together in a small area set aside for them in the north of France, then the rest of the country can breathe a sigh of relief and head somewhere else.
1992	The lamps emit ultra-violet radiation which has powerful cancer-causing abilities, according to a small pilot study on its effects on mice.
1992	Dr Silvio de Flora and Dr Francesco D'Agostini, of Genoa University, exposed four mice to a 50 watt halogen lamp for 12 hours a day.
1992	Another four mice were exposed to the same lamp with a glass cover on it.
1992	The unprotected mice began to develop tumours after three months.
1992	When word came from Germany that a dye product called protonsil was proving efficacious in the treatment of streptococcal infections in mice, Bovet set himself to analyse this ‘clumsy, complex chemical’.
1992	In the cat and mouse game beneath the Arctic ice, Sergei is the whiskers, monitoring radar and sonar data from hostile submarines.
1992	Soccer: World Cup ‘94 to exploit Disney dollars in a multi-million Mickey Mouse affair
1992	THOSE who believe that the 1994 World Cup finals in the United States will be a Mickey Mouse affair are quite right — Mickey, Pluto and friends will help turn World Cup ‘94 into a multi-million dollar extravaganza.
1992	Mickey Mouse, that great icon of our times, was seen bestriding the continent of Europe — which once thought of itself as coterminous with Christendom — like a colossus.
1985	Day 4 The Mouse and the Plum Cake
1985	A mouse found a beautiful piece of plum cake,
1985	‘My stars!’ cried the mouse, while his eye beamed with
1985	So off went the mouse, as he held the cake fast,
1985	And some large ones may learn from the mouse and the
1985	Like the mouse in the poem, when we consume more than our fair share of the earth's resources, we not only force our brothers and sisters in other countries to go without, but we damage ourselves as well.
1985	Today's reading, from The Eighteenth Emergency by Betsy Byars, is about a boy called Mouse Fawley.
1985	Mouse gets his nickname because he is small and weedy.
1985	In this extract, Mouse knows that the biggest, toughest boy in the school, Marv Hammerman, is looking for a fight with him.
1985	Mouse talks about it with his friend, Ezzie….
1985	‘You ever been hit before, Mouse?
1985	Mouse sighed.
1985	It was now a matter of whether he, Mouse Fawley, could survive the attack.
1985	I mean, you stood up for four hits, Mouse?’
1985	Mouse shook his head.
1985	Mouse said, ‘In the stomach.’
1985	Mouse suddenly thought of his stomach as having a big red circular target on it with HIT THERE printed in the centre.
1985	And Mouse would have had to keep sitting there saying over and over, ‘Yes, Viola Angotti hit me in the stomach.
1985	It had been wonderful at first, Mouse remembered.
1985	As it turned out, the principal had caught the other boys, and they were all being marched back in the front door of the school, but Mouse didn't know that.
1985	Mouse had what people call an ‘inferiority complex’ about being small.
1985	Mouse underestimated Viola Angotti.
1985	She might have made her point a lot better by picking up Mouse and dumping him in the garbage can — instead she responded with violence that was really out of proportion to Mouse's attack.
1990	On domestic hazards, he advocated nets over the boxes to prevent dogs and cats scratching in the   earth and small pieces of broken glass scattered in it to deter burrowing by rats and mice.
1992	It can either be controlled directly via a mouse interface or control can be automated using macros to perform repetitive tasks, or more complex operations.
1992	It is also possible to generate animated rotation sequences and, using the mouse, to translate and rotate wireframe models interactively and modify their bond parameters.
1990	For those last minute Mickey Mouse presents for home there is also a mini-market and souvenir shop.
1980	Prosimians, such as the nocturnal mouse lemur of Madagascan forests, feed on invertebrates and are active at night.
1980	The mouse lemur's pattern of life focuses especially on the female's feeding ecology, upon which the males dispersion is contingent.
1980	The relatively solitary invertebrate-eating nocturnal forest animals such as the mouse lemur.
1980	The little mouse lemur of Madagascar lives in small groups in which each female owns a territory and lives in a tree cavity or hole somewhere within it.
1991	The lion and the mouse cannot confederate.
1991	In the making of aquavitae certain plants were utilised as additives, such as some members of the Leguminosae or vetch family,, literally ‘mice pease’ and known simply as  vetch, and  or  known as bitter vetch (Lathyrus montanus ).
1982	By the end of the Palaeocene, only a few million years from the Cretaceous extinction of the giant reptiles, there were representatives of many of the living mammalian orders, including, for example, the primates (the order to which man belongs), the carnivores (cats dogs, and most living predators) and the rodents (rats, mice).
1991	But there are also advantages in being small, because small animals need less food, and tiny creatures such as mice can hide from predators more easily than larger ones.
1991	On the other hand, in the relative absence of predators, there is no advantage in being very small, like a continental mouse.
1993	Not quite so even as a Mouse's Hide
1991	Fortunately nobody was, and the Greenpeace boat returned in successive years to play the same dangerous game of cat and mouse on the ocean waves.
1991	In the courtyard is the Madonna of the Mouse, so called because of the mouse sitting on the shoulder of the baby.
1991	Marketing washing powders or mouse traps is a much simpler task than marketing a school.
1991	There is a clear consensus about the purpose of washing powders or mouse traps; it's easy to judge whether they are efficient, effective and provide value for money.
1990	He was wearing khaki dungarees about three sizes too big for him and a boy's shirt with pictures of Mickey Mouse printed across the front.
1990	Even our 12-year-old boy is there in the clippings in his Mickey Mouse shirt with his cup of tea and his Kalashnikov rifle, scampering across page one on 25 September 1976, behind that barricade of old doors, travelling with us to page four, column three, into that grassy interior.
1991	Studies in animals show that the breakdown products of electrically arced sulphur hexafluoride kill cells, and irritate the lungs of mice and rats, making them bleed.
1991	He had to sing ‘Three Blind Mice’.
1991	I guarantee I can tell what kind of actor a person is if I hear them do ‘Three Blind Mice’.’
1991	He had not done any singing — apart from in the bath — since Marty Landau's acting classes when he did those ‘Three Blind Mice’ exercises; he wasn't much of a crooner then and he had not improved with age.
1990	Great-aunts were sometimes significant: a Scots farmer's old sister, ‘very straightlaced…you sat like a mouse;’ or the great-aunt of a Portsmouth docker's daughter, ‘an old, old lady’, who liked to celebrate receiving her weekly pension —‘Every weekend, pension day, she had a wee brown jug and she used to send me up the beer shop to get half pint o'stout.
1992	A huge, broad-winged, red-backed hawk, mouse in beak, soared into view.
1989	Or rather, as she then, standing tense in the emptiness felt it, she had become something exceedingly small, smaller than the jar of marmalade and more mobile, as small as a mouse, or as an electric spark, which was impelled to run very fast, invisibly fast, round and round the house, altering it in some way which was now imperative.
1989	The little mouse which had run so fast and so far would now sit still in its corner.
1989	She saw the little mouse lying dead in its corner covered in dust.
1990	A mouse to stop a lion.
1990	‘Luch the mouse, eh?
1990	Did you not hear, lass, that I chase mice out of my kitchen?’
1991	A sort of cat and mouse game followed, especially going up the long hill, but we eventually settled on a dead heat.
1991	Below , Jones enjoys a cat and mouse battle with Maher in Barbados
1990	Dubos published two papers in 1939 describing the extraction from a soil bacillus of a substance, active against some pathogenic micro-organisms, which cured mice infected with pneumococci upon injection.
1990	Moreover, it was not harmful when it was injected into mice.
1990	Chain and Heatley injected streptococci into mice and then treated some of the mice with penicillin.
1990	Heatley stayed until 3.30 a.m., when all of the untreated mice had died.
1990	The treated mice were alive.
1990	One wonders how the scene compared with that in Domagk's laboratory several years earlier, when the mice treated with Prontosil were alive and the controls had all died (see Chapter 8).
1990	In the experiment of 25th May 1940, the treatment of four mice with penicillin required a substantial fraction of all the material so far extracted.
1990	A man weighs about as much as 3000 mice, and might need a bigger dose on the same scale.
1990	Outside help was essential, but war-torn British industry was stretched to breaking capacity and the survival of a handful of mice was too thin a basis for disrupting existing essential activities to pursue what may well have appeared to be an academic will-o'-the-wisp.
1990	In mice, in particular circumstances, the growth was uncontrolled and resembled cancer.
1990	Working with another scientist, Thomas Dougherty, who was particularly interested in tumours of white cells in mice, Goodman and Gilman used a nitrogen mustard to treat a mouse with a lymphoma, a large solid lymph cell tumour.
1990	Finally the mouse died, but its life had been extended.
1990	More experiments on more lymphoma-bearing mice followed, and the doses likely to achieve the best effect were assessed with great care.
1990	It prolonged the life of mice with leukaemia, and it produced dramatic remissions in some leukaemia patients.
1990	Pronethalol had only just come into clinical use when it was found to produce tumours in mice.
1990	If a new substance produced unusual behaviour in a mouse or a rat, it was worth further study, but this approach required skilful observation and took time.
1990	However, one last compound was active, more so than meprobamate in quietening mice, preventing electrically-induced convulsions, relaxing muscles, and reducing aggressive behaviour in monkeys.
1991	P. Yeah Reese (Simpson), Monty Nolder, Mouse, Bryan Pennington, Jeff Phillips and Jason Parks were over here a short while back and we went up to meet them and skate at Bury.
1976	One of the best-known segregation distorters is the so-called t gene in mice.
1976	When a mouse has two t genes it either dies young or is sterile.
1976	If a male mouse has only one t gene it will be a normal, healthy mouse except in one remarkable respect.
1976	There is some evidence that wild populations of mice have, in the past, gone extinct through epidemics of t genes.
1985	Ryes and rye-wheat hybrids are sometimes prone to ergot — a fungus disease that destroys the individual grains and replaces them with black spores which look like mouse droppings.
1985	If it is stored for too long in rick or barn, rats and mice can cause heavy losses.
1985	It is then wise to thresh as soon as possible to avoid loss to rats and mice.
1985	It may be baled or carted loose: baling gives greater protection against rats and mice.
1985	Threshed grain and other concentrate feeds must not only be kept dry, but also be protected from birds, mice, and rats.
1985	A cat and the occasional use of warfarin keep the rats and mice more or less in check.
1991	If I were a member of a species, highly evolved and perfectly adapted to a life among craggy rocks, pecking out the odd lamb's eye, devouring a few mice, picking through a nice gamey carcass occasionally, but mostly just hovering gracefully around on thermals below cliffs, I would take great exception to being described as ‘just’ a crow.
1990	His familiar way of observing things from a distance while highlighting a small detail — described in a different context by Hardy himself when he wrote, ‘If I were a painter, I would paint a picture of a room as viewed by a mouse from a chink under the skirting’, and by the modern poet and critic Tom Paulin when he talks of Hardy wearing his imagination like a miner's lamp — was now enriched by the workings of memory and the passage of time on the original observation.
1988	Mice had found shelter in the kitchen, and spiders spun their webs unmolested.
1988	Agnes Fogerty, quiet and still as a mouse, and not unlike that timid animal in her much-pressed grey flannel skirt and twin-set to match, stood oblivious of the chaos around her.
1988	She had thought for some time that a mouse lived there.
1988	Mice were one of the few things that Miss Fogerty could not endure.
1988	After surveying the jungle of cane, raffia and cardboard which rioted gloriously together, and which could well offer a dozen comfortable homes to abundant mice families, Miss Fogerty firmly shut the door and relocked it.
1988	Bird droppings whitened a window sill, and from the bottom of the broken front door Winnie saw a mouse scurry for cover in the dead grass by the door step.
1988	Spiders, beetles, mice and rats, many birds, and bats, no doubt, found refuge here from the cruelty of wind and weather.
1991	They were so verminous that early guidebooks such as Murray's advised that they should be sunk as soon as they were hired to get rid of rats, mice and scorpions.
1991	An eight-cell stage mouse embryo
1991	The human and mouse eggs are about one tenth of a millimetre in diameter and are just visible to the naked eye.
1991	In the mouse egg and at least up to the 16-cell stage all the cells seem equivalent with no fixed fate.
1991	It is possible to rearrange the cells of the early mouse embryo in numerous combinations and normal development will still occur.
1991	Even if several mouse embryos are pushed together so that they fuse and this large mass transferred back into a mother a normal mouse will still develop.
1991	It is quite convenient to simplify the problem, and instead of thinking about sea-urchin or mouse embryos, to think about flags.
1991	fur the mouse egg there are no axes and both the antero-posterior and dorso-ventral are specified, in a manner which is not yet understood, during development.
1991	The drama comes from separating the tooth germ of a mouse embryo from the overlying sheet and then recombining it with the cell sheet enclosing the limb, but which would normally form skin.
1991	A SIMPLE PATTERN: THE EARLY MOUSE EMBRYO
1991	The development of the mouse embryo is the best experimental model for human development.
1991	The early divisions of the mouse embryo seem much more sloppy and between the 8- and 16-cell stages the surface of the clump of cells becomes  smooth and at the 32-cell stage there is a single layer of cells enclosing some cells on the inside.
1991	If a single marked cell from the inner cell mass of one mouse embryo is injected into the inner cell mass of another it will become integrated into the development of the embryo and respond to developmental signals.
1991	Even when the embryo begins to gastrulate, if up to 80 per cent of the cells are killed off with a drug the embryo can regulate and quite normal mice can develop.
1991	If a piece of tissue is taken from the posterior margin of a mouse limb bud and grafted into the anterior region of a chick limb bud, it too can specify additional digits, but the digits are, of course, chick digits.
1991	It is that response that makes the digits of birds, mice, and men different.
1991	If cells in the progress zone of the mouse limb bud or the chick limb bud are damaged often merely a hand develops attached to the shoulder and this may provide a basis for understanding the effects of thalidomide.
1991	For example, in mice and humans the digits are initially joined together and only cell death between the digits separates them.
1991	That such genes exist is shown by the many mutants in the genes of mice that can result in abnormal limb development.
1991	For example, there are mutations in mice which cause abnormalities in limb development, such as reduction in digit number, but there is no simple or direct way to isolate the genes which are responsible.
1991	Leder and his colleagues were working on tumour viruses that cause cancer, when they noticed that one of the mice infected with the virus had a limb deformity.
1991	Identification of the new muscle proteins was made possible by fusing human cells with mouse muscle cells; the human muscle proteins are similar but distinct from those made by mice.
1991	Quite the contrary, all the evidence from experiments with mice, which have been intensively studied, shows that it is not even possible for the nucleus of a very early embryonic mouse cell to substitute for the egg nucleus.
1991	The new construct — the growth hormone gene joined to a promoter that is turned on by traces of metal — was injected with a fine pipette into the nucleus of a fertilized mouse egg.
1991	Many copies were  injected and some of them inserted, almost randomly, into the DNA of the nucleus of a fertilized mouse egg.
1991	Shortly after birth, the mouse was fed water containing traces of metal, so activating the injected construct; the result was a mouse almost twice the size of a normal mouse, and was affectionately labelled ‘Supermouse’.
1991	Supermouse is known as a transgenic mouse.
1991	Transgenic mice provide a particularly  powerful way of studying how genes affect development and how they are turned on and off.
1991	The promoter of the elastase gene was joined to the growth hormone gene and this new construct injected into the nucleus of the fertilized mouse egg.
1991	The evidence that there is just one kind of cell which generates all the blood cell types — a multipotential stem cell — comes from destroying the stem cells of mice and then replacing them with just stem cells.
1991	Injecting as few as 20 multipotential stem cells into a lethally irradiated mouse will suffice.
1991	A quite different way of creating a chimaera is to fuse two early mouse embryos.
1991	Their cells then intermingle and a normal mouse can develop.
1991	However, not quite normal, since the mouse will have four parents if the original two embryos came from quite different mothers and fathers.
1991	If, in addition, the one embryo carried a gene for giving the mouse a black coat, and the other lacked such a gene, thus having a white coat, the result is a striped mouse.
1991	They played cat and mouse with the Bay, now scrambling for the outside, now sneaking back in.
1983	He fetched his sleeping bag from the cornbin, where he kept it so the mice wouldn't make a nest in it, and curled up to go to sleep.
1990	He was really going to buy cigars at the shop next door, but I saw the sugar mice in the window and he couldn't get me away until he came in and bought some.
1990	It's the mice everyone seems to go for, I mean the children.’
1990	‘Well, I have three children of my own now and I thought it would be nice to surprise them with the sugar mice on the tree, and also the chocolate cat.’
1990	And who's to prevent the grown-ups enjoying a sugar mouse now and again.
1990	Agnes hurried into the back shop, turned up the gas jet, quickly transferred two dozen sugar mice to one fancy box and six chocolate cats to another; and when she returned with them into the shop they both exclaimed, and it was the young woman who said, ‘What pretty boxes!
1990	The boxes filled with toffee and tied up with red string, Agnes checked up the account, saying aloud, ‘Two dozen mice, sir, at a penny each, two shillings.
1990	There was a short lull following this exchange, and then the door opened and in stepped the young man who had bought the mice and the toffee a few days ago.
1990	I was next door getting some more of those candied mice.
1990	‘Poor as church mice, some of them.’
1990	It's close on twelve and it was only one of those little mice…’
1990	And we were reminded of this last week when, in making our way up from the quay, we passed this sweet shop and there were the sugar mice in the window, and the cat, and that's why we went in and bought some.
1990	And she couldn't sleep on the floor of the factory with the mice skittering round, and the black beetles everywhere.
1992	I have to say that they were also apparently making this suggestion for rats and mice.
1992	Another consequence of keeping cats in this restricted way would be that you would prevent them from acting as predators of some anti-social species, e.g. rats and mice.
1992	Might it not follow that other steps would need to be taken to help curb local unacceptable populations of rats and mice?
1992	Mice are not clockwork mice running around on a course which is the predictable inevitable consequence of some internal machinery.
1992	However, by 1977 this act was further amended by excluding rats, mice, birds, horses and farm animals from the definition of animal.
1992	If this were so, it would be as meaningless to make general statements about what a mouse or a cock or a cobra feels as it is to generalise about human behaviour.
1992	We are now beginning new ways of thinking about whether to feed mice or kill them, plant trees or chop them down which require new balances of conflict of interest.
1985	The most dramatic of the bridges built in Scotland by Thomas Telford (q.v. ) is undoubtedly the Cartland Crags Bridge, which crosses the gorge of Mouse Water just north west of Lanark.
1988	Their only child, christened Alastair but known for ever in the family as ‘Mouse’, was born within a year of their marriage.
1988	It was from tales told to ‘Mouse’ and later continued in letter form — from Fowey — that the tale of the ‘Wind in the Willows’began to emerge.
1988	In 1907 ‘Mouse’ went with his Governess to Littlehampton, his parents to Falmouth and then back to Fowey.
1988	It is not surprising that a few years later, in 1911, Grahame was to introduce ‘Mouse’ to his beloved Cornwall — and especially Fowey — before the boy began school.
1988	‘Mouse’ was to go on to a succession of schools — at all of which he was unhappy — and to Oxford, where he was run over by a train under circumstances which strongly suggested suicide.
1992	ChemTech Analytical has launched the CTA-2000 atomic absorption spectrophotometer which is controlled by a 20MHz computer, with operations performed by a simple ‘point-and-click’ mouse.
1992	A leaning toward chemistry and chemical engineering was no doubt kindled in some way by a Mickey Mouse comic strip.
1992	This was the Mouse of which the Mountain Pantisocracy was at last safely delivered!’
1992	To the defects of a house with little space and less privacy were added general dilapidation, a plague of mice (which Coleridge was too good-natured to set traps for) and a daily flow of traffic past the door on a turnpike road  transformed in wet weather to ‘an impassable Hog-stye.
1990	rats and mice, and such small gear,
1990	variant of ‘Mice and rats and such small deer’, Shakespeare,King Lear , III.
1990	iv, ‘Mice and rats and such small deer’,CH 2;NN 19.
1991	Typically the means of issuing commands using this system has been via a window-icon-mouse-pop-up menu (WIMP) display, where the mouse is used to point at icons or menus in windows (which are subsets of the screen working area).
1992	I would have loved to have stayed in her Boathouse despite the eight inch snail with head and horns buried in a roll of butter in the larder in the morning and his relatives ‘who had a provoking way of paying nocturnal visits, and wandered between the wooden walls and the loosely fixed paper that decked the walls…’; the family of mice and the ‘sagacious hen’ that laid her eggs in the corner of the hole in the wall designated as a cupboard.
1991	‘Kinsella,’ Carew explained ‘is a weak little mouse of a man.
1991	The shadows of a mouse projected upon the wall in such a way could make us believe a monster lurked around the corner.
1991	However, by confronting our fear and shedding light upon the monster, we would see what was really there: a mouse.
1987	the arrow which appears on the screen when a mouse is used is called a pointer.
1987	The mouse is a hand-held device connected to a computer which can be used in conjunction with a keyboard.
1987	Its shape resembles a mouse with a cable for a tail and buttons for eyes.
1987	The operator's hand rests on top of the mouse with the first and second fingers over its ‘eyes’.
1987	Sliding the mouse over the desk top beside the computer rotates a direction-sensitive ball inside it which in turn moves a pointer over the screen.
1990	Some examples of small mammals: from top, mole (Talpa europea ), rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus ), common shrew (Sorex araneus ), field mole (Microtus agrestis ), unstriped grass mouse (Arvicanthis niloticus ), hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus ).
1990	Burial of a mouse by sexton beetles,Microphorus species.
1990	At the top the beetles have discovered the dead mouse; they bury it by tunnelling beneath it and removing the earth from below so that it drops down into the excavation; at the bottom as the mouse sinks down into the earth the beetles roll it into a ball ready for the reception of their eggs.
1990	Klein (1975a) has described fossilized carnivore burrows from South Africa, and fossilized rodent burrows are known for hamsters (Szafer, 1957) and pocket mice (Voorhies, 1974), but in general such discoveries are rare.
1990	A number of small mammal carcases, including shrews, microtines and mice, were exposed in sheltered conditions  in Wales after having been trapped and killed.
1990	Dodson calculated the sequence of dispersal of bones from a mouse and a frog, finding many similarities with the transport categories first described by Voorhies (1969).
1990	The same type of modification is seen on shrews (it will be seen in Chapter 3 that evidence of digestion occurs earlier on vole teeth than on mice or shrews), and flaking and penetration of limb bones is also common (Fig. 1.13 G-H).
1990	For example, the diurnal grass mouse, Arvicanthis niloticus is not present in the eagle owl assemblages from  the Serengeti (Append.
1990	Unstriped grass mouse (Arvicanthis niloticus)
1990	Commensal species like the house mouse and rat from dwellings slightly removed from the trap lines may be present in the owl assemblage but absent from the traps because of the larger range of the owl.
1990	Bird prey completely disappeared, and laboratory mice were found to be more greatly affected than were wood mice.
1990	Variation in prey type also has to be considered, for there is differential digestion of such groups as voles, mice and shrews.
1989	It was just right for his small cine projector, and as many as could be packed in, watched happy films about ‘Fulham in the springtime’ or ‘The London Parks’or the antics of Mickey Mouse.
1991	If you haven't read any books about the Wideawake Mice read this aloud first.
1991	The Wideawake Mice were once toy mice, in Mr Wideawake's shop, in Candletown.
1991	This is the story about Miranda Mouse, and what happened when she went for a walk in Puddle Lane.
1991	Miranda Mouse
1991	One afternoon, the Wideawake Mice were all fast asleep, in their home in Candletown Market.
1991	The sun was shining down outside, and the mice were all very warm and comfortable.
1991	Jeremy Mouse opened one eye.
1991	Miranda looked at the other mice.
1991	It's not very safe for you here, little mouse.
1991	‘Fly through the air, little mouse!’ cried the Magician.
1989	Biscuits, cereals etc must be protected from mice and other vermin.
1984	All the cooking would be done by slaves, and the kitchens must have been difficult to keep clean and mice and cockroaches a familiar sight.
1989	Perishable food or sweets hidden away in drawers may attract mice or insects or may go off.
1989	You say something like, ‘three blind mice’— the last letter is e.
1985	Wear little white collars and be quiet as mice..
1985	mouse ran up my stocking The
1989	I remember once when she was climbing into bed in her Waaf-issue blue striped pyjamas, a cheeky little field mouse popped up from between her sheets where it had evidently been nesting, and streaked across the hut to disappear down a convenient crack in the wooden wall.
1989	Those of us near enough to have observed this were by now climbing onto chairs and beds and squealing, ‘It's a mouse!’, but Rosie continued her progression into bed, pulled the clothes up to her nose and regarded us all with mild astonishment.
1988	Rough tweed jackets and corduroy trousers, complete with wide leather belt and string tied above the knees to stop the mice running up their trouser legs.
1991	Douglas Adams satirised all such ideas with his fantasy that Earth, people and the whole show are merely part of a huge experiment run by mice.
1991	For example, a massive dose of the pesticide permethrin (a suspected carcinogen recently used on vegetable crops) of say, 5000 parts per million, causes a 60 per cent incidence of liver tumours in mice.
1991	Or how important are liver tumours, which often appear spontaneously in certain types of lab mouse?
1991	Monoclonal tests promise good news for mice
1991	These arise when, for example, the hybrids are made in part from mouse cells and raised inside mice.
1991	For relatively large volumes of antibodies, industry has relied on raising the hybrids in ascites (fluid in the peritoneal cavity) in mice, rather than in tissue culture.
1991	Fazekas de St Groth calls his system ‘ascites without the mouse’; it is based on a method used for decades to Brow bacteria in suspension.
1991	A team from the University of California at San Diego has concocted such a medium in which a particular type of cell that causes cancer in mice grows readily.
1991	These cells, called the NS I mouse myeloma line, are commonly used in making hybridomas.
1991	Virtually all monoclonal antibodies today are made by hybrids of mouse cells or mouse-human hybrids.
1991	It is easy to inject a mouse to stimulate its B cells, but injecting a human with something just to create monoclonal antibodies is another matter.
1991	MALARIA parasites living in mouse red blood cells are killed by substances released by specialised cells of the immune system called macrophages.
1991	Clark tested this idea by injecting a drug called alloxan into mice that were previously inoculated with P. vinckei ,(other strains of Plasmodium have to be used in the mouse model because the human parasites P. vivax, P. ovale.
1991	Clark found that the level of parasitaemia dropped dramatically in the mice following alloxan treatment.
1991	As yet involvement of radicals has only been observed in mouse models.
1991	Already, Michael Cole and his colleagues at St Louis University have evidence that in an equivalent translocation in a mouse tumour cell the translocated myc gene is considerably changed in transit (Cell , vol 31, p 443).
1991	They coaxed everything from pygmy mice to snakes to cheetahs into running on a treadmill while wearing an oxygen mask.
1991	Does that mean that a man is a better machine for running than a quail, or a chipmunk or mouse?
1991	A quail or a mouse also has a relatively large amount of light coloured, ‘fast’, muscle (white meat) and hence are forced to use energy in short bursts only to avoid build up of the toxic byproduct of anaerobic respiration, lactic acid.
1991	D. Michie, professor of machine intelligence at Edinburgh University, has discovered a somewhat similar state of affairs in a hybrid mouse, and R. A. Fisher suggested the term affinity to describe the phenomenon.
1991	So far trypanosomes have been found only in the choroid plexus of mice.
1991	The best-made tests on mice and men
1991	The tests can often be more effective than more expensive and time-consuming tests on mice and other animals.
1991	If a large number of people are likely to come into contact with the chemical, the committee recommends testing on mice and other small mammals.
1991	And there is no guarantee that either the metabolic pathways or the ability to repair genetic damage is comparable in mouse and man.
1991	The committee says it is ‘unwilling to assume that negative mouse data necessarily outweigh the consensus of a variety of short-term tests.’
1991	Galecron (the brand name for the formulation, chlordimeform) was widely used as a pesticide before it was taken off the market briefly in 1976 after it was found to increase tumours in mice.
1991	Dr Kai Simons and his colleagues at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory recently undertook a detailed study of the entry of Semliki Forest virus (which can cause encephalitis in mice) into animal cells.
1991	Back home, Clark found, to his delight, that by injecting malaria-infected mice with alloxan, a drug known to produce free oxygen radicals, he could reduce the level of parasitaemia dramatically.
1991	The exotic animals include goats, pigs, donkeys, horses, cattle, cats, dogs, mice, rats and fire ants.
1991	Trounson, who helped to pioneer techniques for freezing the embryos of cattle while working in Britain during the 1970s, says that research in sheep, mice and cattle indicates that vital factors in effective freezing include the chemical composition and the physical size of the embryonic cells.
1991	Extracts of the crops were fed to four mice; three died within two days.
1991	Since the late 1970s, scientists have hunted down potential human cancer agents, known as carcinogens, by feeding very high doses of suspect chemicals to mice and rats.
1991	By adding the virus to cultured animal cells (mouse, chicken and human) they were able to determine the extent of virus entry by later purifying the cells and measuring their radioactivity.
1991	Psychological and psychometric testing has clearly demonstrated that centrophenoxine stimulates tired elderly brains and makes them more alert, and the compound can prolong the lifespan of normal mice in laboratory tests.
1991	Thus the abuse of a horse will generate more adverse reaction than similar abuse of a rat or mouse, even though whipping a tired horse is scarcely comparable in ‘cruelty’ with using chemically treated bait on rodents to induce lethal internal haemorrhaging.
1991	Their diet consists of chopped two day old mice, and vulture's vomit.
1991	A house mouse can run at 13 km/h, larger species somewhat faster until the optimum size for -running is reached at about 120 kg.
1991	The remaining 4 min 44 s was allocated between a new, mid-air launched, Canadian lifeboat; a Dr Jane Smith, researching into high-frequency squeals baby mice emit to summon their mums; and a chin-controlled wheelchair developed at John (sic) Hopkins University.
1991	After removing the yellow residues with a solvent, Crone mixed them with dimethyl sulphoxide and painted shaved mice with doses of 5, 10 and 25 micrograms.
1991	The work really began when Kaufman noticed that if mouse eggs were exposed briefly to a 7 per cent solution of alcohol a significant proportion (up to 20 per cent) of the embryos which developed were aneuploid (Journal of Embryology and Experimental Morphology , vol 7 1, p 139).
1991	This led him to investigate in more detail the effect of alcohol on chromosome segregation at about the time of conception, and its effects on early development of the mouse embryo in vivo .
1991	He gave pregnant mice a dilute solution of alcohol by mouth, and again, fertilised eggs exposed to alcohol while in the process of completing the second meiotic division show an incidence of aneuploidy, varying with dose, of up to 20 per cent (Nature , vol 302, p 258).
1991	But it is not a favourable habitat for either the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus), which does live in gardens, or the familiar house mouse (Mus musculus).
1991	The original discovery of the cancer gene was made by fragmenting the DNA of human bladder tumour cells and feeding the fragments to cultured mouse cells.
1991	Some of the mouse cells became cancerous in consequence, and the human DNA retrieved from them turned out to contain a mutant version of a normal cellular gene.
1991	Since the normal, non-mutant gene does not cause the cultured mouse cells to become cancerous, the cancer-causing properties of the bladder tumour gene were naturally attributed to the mutation.
1991	The cultured mouse cells that are the universal test for cancer-causing genes work only because they are very far from normal.
1991	Most experts think normal cells probably have to undergo several mutations in order to become cancerous; and it is generally suspected that the mouse cells — a laboratory line known as NIH 3T3 cells — have already undergone numerous mutations and are hovering on the brink of becoming cancerous.
1991	In this huge group (1,729 species) there are many armoured examples: 18 kinds of spiny mice, 22 spiny pocket mice, 37 spiny rats and 24 porcupines.
1991	The mice and rats have simple, slender spines mixed in with their ordinary fur.
1991	This spiny mouse is one of 101 species of prickly rodents, but it is the least spectacular.
1991	One American short-tailed shrew stores enough venom to kill two hundred mice.
1991	The ‘rodent-run’ display takes an entirely different form and is employed especially where the local predatory species are always on the alert for small rats, mice, or lemmings.
1991	Birds of prey, such as this tawny owl (opposite, bottom) swooping down on a mouse, are at serious risk in many parts of the world because of pesticides employed to eliminate the pests on which they rely for food.
1979	For these to be undertaken it is necessary to mount a separate ‘experimental’ project, but since children are not white mice it is necessary first to enlist enough parental support to allow people to give them their children to experiment on, and enough official support to ensure that in matters such as official examinations, children who have followed radically different curricula do not suffer.
1991	Even the domestic cat, when it first sees a mouse, does not immediately rush to capture its prey; instead, it waits until the appropriate moment so as to achieve the highest chance of success.
1991	Robert Bremel, a University of Wisconsin professor, milks mice in his laboratory.
1991	Bremel says it takes 6,000 lactating mice to match a cow's output.
1991	But, he adds, mice are more energy efficient and less temperamental than cows.
1987	This corresponds well to the high pitch of mouse sounds, which can be emitted up to this same level.
1987	So no mouse is safe from the alert ears of the predatory cat.
1987	Considering the size of their natural prey — small mice and birds — this is not so surprising.
1987	If you compare the amount of meat on an ordinary mouse with the amount of meat you place in your pet's food dish, you will find that the average cat-meal is about the equivalent of five mice.
1987	Or there may have been a sudden and unexpected explosion in the local mouse population, leading to a spate of hunting and killing by a pet cat that normally feeds only at home.
1987	Many people have employed a variety of mouse and rat poisons without stopping to think that the initial effect of such toxins is to slow down the victim which then becomes an easy target for a hunting cat.
1987	In other words, the dying mouse is the one most likely to end up in a cat's stomach.
1987	Inside the mouse's body, of course, the poison that made it so easy to catch is still present and can cause serious damage to the unfortunate cat.
1987	After eating its mouse, the cat may start to vomit, froth at the mouth and stagger about in a confused condition.
1987	This is a case of adding injury to insult — it was originally the cat's job to kill the mice and the rodent-poisoners who usurped its role are not content merely with making it obsolete, but are also assaulting it physically in this underhand, prey-concealed way.
1987	The vital grab at a mouse with sharp claws extended would become a useless gesture.
1987	Day after day, the finely-tuned responses that all felines possess — to make a sudden rush towards an unsuspecting mouse, or to make a headlong flight from approaching danger — are thwarted by the peace and luxurious calm of the home in which they live.
1987	If a cat kills a mouse we may feel sorry for the mouse but we no longer accuse the cat of wickedness.
1987	Equally, if the mouse was a pest and we are pleased to see the end of it, we do not praise the cat for the saintly way in which it has fulfilled its duty to its household.
1987	We now see the cat's actions as part of its natural specialization as a predatory carnivore, and we recognize that in ridding our houses of mice it is neither ‘malicious’ and ‘vicious’on the one hand, nor ‘loyal’and ‘responsible’on the other.
1987	Expensive toys are available in the form of wind-up mice, tinkling cylinders and catnip-soaked balls, and both young kittens and older cats may react to these with great intensity.
1987	The stores were overrun with rats and mice and the cats came to feast on these rodent pests, thereby endearing themselves to the Egyptian people.
1987	Crops were already being grown and were undoubtedly attracting rats and mice in large numbers.
1987	The outcome was a savage persecution lasting for several centuries, perpetrated against an animal whose only serious task was to rid human habitations of infestations of disease-carrying, food-spoiling rats and mice.
1987	Its real blessing, of course, was that it kept down the numbers of mice and rats.
1989	‘Oh!’ said Moominmamma with a start, ‘I believe those were mice disappearing into the cellar.
1989	By his side a little bird on a stand is singing, and a tiny mouse is searching for fallen bird-food.)
1988	Corbett was tired, depressed: the passing sights caught his eye: a dog, one leg shorter than the rest, sniffing at the bloated body of a rat: a cat running by, his mouth stuffed with baby mice, a beggar, white-eyed and sore-ridden, shrieking at young boys who were pissing over him.
1990	She kept glancing at the massive Mickey Mouse watch that dangled round her thin bony wrist.
1990	The Mickey Mouse girl would be sweeping it all into the bin, along with any cockroaches she'd crushed underfoot.
1991	But where Paula's hair had shone and bounced as if it had caught some of the morning's sunlight her own was straight and mouse coloured, where Paula's eyes were the clearest, sharpest green  hers were muddied to a very ordinary shade of hazel.
1983	They were unhappy and in a hurry to get clear of the trees; they started if a mouse stirred, and when an owl hooted they seized their swords.’
1983	‘I was the mouse and the owl.’
1983	A fox pounced on a mouse and obliterated its deft life.
1983	They had come quietly but Tom had ears that could hear a mouse moving underground, or a squirrel breathing in a tree.
1991	For if our physical reality is largely linked to the mental and sensory mechanisms we possess, then what was the nature of physical reality before life is supposed to have spontaneously emerged — like mice out of soiled linen, as some Victorians thought — from the primaeval muds of ancient oceans?
1991	Owls, on the other hand, who also have exquisite ‘binocular’ hearing, enabling them to pin-point mice on a dark night, have excellent binocular vision as well, with eyes at the front.
1991	Rats and mice even use ultrasonic echoes to determine distances and sizes of objects in the dark — this is one of the reasons why they squeak.
1991	Cats, too, are sensitive to ultrasonic frequencies and can hear mice and voles in hidden places.
1991	Or a cat will bring home a live mouse to teach her kittens how to catch it.
1991	The social communities and nests of bees and termites, the aquatic homes of sand grains and sticks built by caddis fly larvae, the webs and traps of spiders, the nests of some fishes, the huge pits over three feet deep and six feet in diameter of the green sea turtle, the ramifying burrows and nesting chambers of wood mice, the holes and domestic quarters of foxes, badgers, moles and rabbits, the amazing engineering feats of the dam and lodge-building beaver — all these and many more tell of an inner instinctive pattern of mental motivation lying beyond the realm of brain cells alone.
1989	‘Calls himself Mouse.
1989	Mouse.
1989	Mouse — the name did suit him, Fox thought with a private grin — yelped and sat up.
1989	‘Suppose we do a deal, Mouse.’
1989	Mouse took its head in his hands and met its eyes, looking at it for a long moment.
1989	Mouse asked, padding along beside her.
1989	Mouse looked at the grimy mattresses, and went over to the tap.
1989	For the first time, Mouse smiled.
1989	Looking up, she saw Mouse divide his wafer into two portions, sprinkling one over a flat, battered metal dish for the dog and stirring the other into his own.
1989	‘Mouse.
1989	Mouse shrugged.
1989	Fox woke, and found Mouse kneeling at the basin, rinsing clean both his own messkit and hers.
1989	Mouse had been curled up with Wolf on one of the mattresses, sleepily combing the tangled hair of Wolf's great mane with his fingers, when the sandy-haired woman slammed through the door and kicked it shut behind her.
1989	With an incoherent whimper, Mouse rolled himself to Wolf, pulling his protector to him.
1989	Moaning, Mouse surrendered.
1989	And then, with terror that was not his own, he was alive again, in the sweet blackness, and Mouse clung desperately, only to be wrenched back to the red deathly peace, hearing an endless scream as a woman he had never seen died, died endlessly and now .
1989	In the stretched moments when he could think at all, Mouse knew, helplessly, that he was going mad.
1989	And Wolf was on them, his swift silver presence a compact laserbolt, seizing Mouse and pulling.
1989	Mouse was lying half on and half off the mattress, his face buried in Wolf's coat, making small whimpering noises in his throat.
1989	Even as he sat up, though, she rolled over and sprang, straight for his throat, her mind incandescent with rage, her mindvoice screaming threats and curses and obscenities, coloured all with a hungry pleasure that sickened Mouse;Die!
1989	The horrible delight that held Mouse paralysed, sweeping to a climax, changed without warning to a tidal wave of nausea.
1989	Fox jolted back on her heels, dropping Mouse.
1989	Wolf was still watching her, carefully, but Mouse stood up.
1989	She took it, staring now from Wolf to Mouse and back again, and drank.
1989	Mouse flopped down on the floor and started to giggle.
1989	I didn't , Mouse said inside Fox's mind.
1989	Fox closed her shields down, tighter and harder than ever before, so that even her timesense was cut off, but still, now that Mouse had betrayed it, still she could feel the shimmery fragile links running between her and this stupid lackwit empath, this mutant mongrel animal—
1989	Mouse sounded terrified.
1991	There was infestation of rats and mice, with lice, bed- and wood-bugs, cockroaches and beetles, to back up the rivers of excreta which often flowed from common lavatories situated on tenements, between floors.
1989	All farms have rats and mice but in recent years they have been coming through from the barn into the house and getting into the furniture.
1991	A mouse of a man.
1992	If that were so, why not be ruled by Mickey Mouse?
1992	She pops up during a day-time TV maths programme with a handful of chocolate mice and a pair of weighing-scales.
1992	We had wanted to persuade Rick once again to don his mouse disguise for a series of public road safety commercials for the Mongolian government.
1991	Free DELL mouse
1989	‘Eating dogs, cats and mice?
1989	Someone cleverer or luckier than he was had noticed that the way to make money wasn't this way, risking the mice and the drought and the locusts, managing the men and the beasts and all the complexity of arrangements that ended here, in the yard, with crushed cane and coarse syrup fit for refining.
1990	Sometimes on Sundays he would take her to the fields where he had been helping with the harvest, to see the rabbits, or a nest of mice.
1990	MICE
1990	According to one obscure belief in ancient Rome, smearing mouse excrement over someone made them impotent.
1988	There's a species of blind mice that live in there, eating the grain that falls from the grain trains.’
1977	Then began a game of cat and mouse.
1992	Thanks go to Ms K Brummitt from Birmingham for sending in these pokes for Murray Mouse and the Dizzy's Excellent Adventures compilation.
1992	The Trojan C64/128 light pen can be used as a complete replacement for the mouse in many applications.
1992	With Buttons and the Mice cheering Cinders with Rock Around the Clock, the Ugly Sisters appearing to the strains of Walk Like a Man, the Prince as a look-alike of pop star Prince, a decorated Reebok glass slipper and a Thunderbird 4 coach, the script-writing team Foxanpelico Ltd., had a few novel ideas to entertain young and old.
1991	Mickey Mouse Talking Watch.
1991	As he changes from professional saviour to personal friend, then rampant psychopath, the film develops into an intriguing game of cat and mouse.
1991	u Can you imagine doing business with someone in a Mickey Mouse T-shirt ? says Simon, 28.
1991	Their diet is varied: slugs, snails, earthworms, young mice, rabbits, and berries when they are plentiful.
1987	In the ballroom, the Venetian mirrors which lined the walls had been smashed; doors hung on broken hinges; the place stank of mice and damp.
1992	In addition to these foods, I have recently been feeding frozen mice, which are available from shops which supply reptiles.
1992	Large specimens will eat mice, but this is not compulsory.
1991	If, however, it was ravaged by rats and mice, it was an ill-omen for the farm and those who laboured there.
1991	There could be sabre-toothed prairie dogs, mice the size of foxes, and new species such as the ‘gigantelope’, and there would be killer baboons.
1991	It follows also that gravity has a negligible effect on small animals, because their surface to volume ratio is so large: if, for example, a mouse was to be dropped down a 30-metre well-shaft it would be stunned, but would scamper away relatively intact because wind resistance acting on its relatively larger surface would counteract the pull of gravity.
1991	A population of mice may yield up to six times its weight because of rapid turnover and high metabolism.
1991	One conclusion must be that there are probably more similarities between large ectotherms and endothermic homeotherms than between large endotherms and small endothermic homeotherms like rabbits and mice.
1992	DON'T FORGET Mice can be especially damaging at this time of year.
1992	Other rodents, especially mice, gerbils, guinea pigs are loved by the million so why not the wild brown ones?
1992	Mice munch away on aconites and love to nibble newly sown peas and beans.
1992	The Los Angeles Pottery company near Beverly Hills specialises in innovative stoneware cookie jars based on snowmen, Santas, cats and mice.
1992	And being reactive you can pick up a track, put the mouse on it, access ‘Personnel’, click again on say, Stevie, and get the history of Stevie, pictures of Stevie, Stevie's videos by themselves — as much information as that CD will hold.
1984	As…as a mouse
1984	‘I hope there's a fat cheque in the posh otherwise I shall be as poor as a church mouse.
1984	Only a modest show this year because of the mice.’
1984	With luck the conversation is defused into either mice or begonias, and then you will get a chance to get a word in edgeways rather than listen to a lecture which could become controversial or boring (and hard work to speechread).
1984	Is it the first verse of ‘Three Blind Mice’ or ‘Mary, Mary Quite Contrary’or ‘Jack and Jill’?
1984	I remember an interesting speaker at a small meeting whose careful argument no one absorbed because a baby mouse appeared at his feet and washed its whiskers half way through his lecture.
1984	It so happened that the mainspring of my clockwork mouse had broken that very morning.
1984	Such was my astonishment that I stopped kicking the offending mouse and at the first opportunity went to look at the hedgerow.
1991	When Buck goes to a diner, he sits at a table opposite a creepy woman with a nervous tic who keeps running a grey rubber mouse over her face.
1991	Dustin starts by playing Timothy Mouse to Voight's Dumbo, although his voice seems to be dubbed by Mel Blanc, first as Daffy Duck (whom he resembles somewhat with his beak and slicked-down black hair), then as a consumptive Bugs Bunny.
1987	Less work has been done with animal models, but recent work from India has shown that some homoeopathic remedies in various potencies displayed anti-viral activity in developing chick embryos, whereas other remedies had no anti-viral effect in mice.
1991	Affordable presents include Mickey Mouse keyrings for £1.99, a tartan bag of golf tees for £6.95, and a marbled tub of pencils for £4.45.
1992	When the basic design screen appears, select PATTERN with the mouse pointer and click the mouse button off on the instruction PALETTE READING.
1992	Place the pointer in the YES box and click the mouse button.
1992	Move the mouse pointer to NEXT and click.
1992	Move the mouse pointer to the top menu bar and select PATTERN by holding down the mouse button.
1992	You can adjust each of these colour pots up or down, by taking the mouse button into the up or down pointing arrow and clicking.
1992	When you are happy with this colour, click the mouse pointer on QUIT in the top menu bar.
1992	After selecting number 2 into the current colour box, go to FUNCTION in the top menu bar and hold down the mouse button.
1992	To save the new palette, select PATTERN from top menu bar and release the mouse button on PALETTE WRITING.
1992	The diagram is therefore drawn on the computer screen with the aid of a mouse instead of being drawn on to paper or a plastic sheet.
1992	Plotting points is done by moving a cursor around the screen with the mouse.
1992	It is possible to use the arrow keys if you do not have a mouse but this is rather slow and tedious.
1992	Clicking with the left mouse button when the cursor is in its ‘active’ will plot the point at the current cursor position.
1992	Clicking with the mouse while the cursor is positioned over one of the buttons turns on the appropriate function or turns it off it is already on.
1992	It does not take long to get used to plotting points on screen with the mouse, so creating simple straight line shapes soon becomes quite easy.
1990	Before moving into AIDS research, John was one of a British team working on mouse antibodies that did recognise the enemy — or at least my particular enemy, low-grade follicular lymphoma.
1990	The mouse antibody is matched and cloned with the patient's antibody and reintroduced into the patient, and is now able to recognise and destroy the cancer cells.
1991	The band are planning an extensive UK tour with Jacob's Mouse in October.
1992	Last month, he was elected to the Board of Directors of the Disney company — no Mickey Mouse operation, with US$6 billion in assets, and investors in New York, London, Brussels and Paris.
1992	Euclid, the orange tomcat, veteran of at least two major quakes, snoozed through that golden Saturday morning on my garden step, his mind on mice and the dying squeak of captured vole or bird.
1981	And a mouse has been keeping the cat well amused.
1970	Living in close proximity in such a small cottage may have caused difficulties; one gathers that Coleridge's domestic arrangements included benevolent toleration of mice, whom he had not the heart to kill.
1991	THE MOUSE THAT ROARED
1987	In fact she was as quiet as a mouse and Ruth hardly knew she was there.
1987	As Ellen scurried out of the room like a frightened mouse, Ruth sat down again.
1989	All she has to do is slip the Mickey Mouse earrings in the pocket, smooth down her short hair so that it looks less like Just William and more like Tony Slattery, and the personality change is complete.
1990	A number of steps involving work on crystals, yeast cells, thymus cells and mouse cells, in relation to transmissions of patterns over a distance, led to amazing discoveries.
1991	Butcher comments that ‘The Monks, Friers, and Nuns of those superstitious Times like so many Rats or Mice, which make choice to feed of the daintiest cheese) made choice of this Place to build here several Receptacles…’
1992	MARIO PAINT AND MOUSE
1992	The mouse is exceptionally good and paves the way for its use in future game titles.
1992	OF MICE AND MEN: Epic starring John Malkovich as a mentally retarded American living through the Depression of the Thirties.
1992	This week London audiences gave ET their verdicts on Of Mice And Men, adapted from John Steinbeck's novel, and The Waterdance.
1992	OF MICE AND MEN: Epic starring John Malkovich as a mentally retarded American living through the Depression.
1992	OF MICE AND MEN: Epic starring John Malkovich as a mentally-retarded American in the Thirties.
1992	The blot on our copy book, as far as tips go, was Mickey Mouse.
1992	Now Mickey Mouse's £2bn magic kingdom starts to wobble
1992	MICKEY MOUSE and Donald Duck are in the dog house with Goofey.
1992	I was even lucky enough to rub shoulders with my perspiring hero Mickey Mouse, under a maze of tunnels beneath Paramount studios three years ago.
1992	Nintendo claims that 50 per cent of British households now own one of their games, and research shows that the little man on the Game Boy screen is recognised by more children in America than Mickey Mouse is.
1992	Her dress and veil featured sequinned pictures of Mickey Mouse.
1992	The couple, from Luton, Beds, and many of the 44 guests even wore Mickey Mouse ears for the official photos.
1992	£131m coup makes Mickey Mouse squeak
1992	‘It's sod's law and an example of the best laid plans of mice and men going wrong,’ said Mr Norris.
1992	Trolls, the Mouse Trap game, Lego and the ever-present Sindy and Barbie are all among the Top 10 best sellers, shown right.
1990	The more tender-hearted biographers have pictured Vincent as a St Francis, lifting straying caterpillars from the ground and placing them gently on branches, leaving cheese and milk for the mice while he starved on bread and water.
1992	Visualise a senior executive switching on a notebook PC in a hotel room, plugging the modem into the telephone socket and then settling down to tap into information stored on any of the organisation's computer systems, anywhere in the world, through a simple click-and-point action of the mouse.
1992	Windows makes it much easier to exchange information between different packages; there are various mechanisms, one of which allows you to use the mouse to highlight a chunk of information in a spreadsheet, say, to be cut-and-pasted to a Windows word processor via an intermediate storage area called a clip-board.
1992	You just point to them and click the right mouse button.
1992	You can just click with the mouse to view the model a different way.’
1992	Mr Searle also likes Quattro Pro for Windows' object inspectors: dialogue boxes appear at the click of a mouse button to lead you step by step through all the options available in a particular context; you don't have to select umpteen menu options.
1982	As might be expected, most advertisements incorporated in books proclaim the publishers' own wares-but with books issued in parts, such as those of Dickens, they can be a joyous medley covering everything from top hats to mouse traps, pills to perambulators and hair oils to phrenology.
1982	On Marryat's The Pacha of Many Tales (1835) you will find a splendid full-rigged ship of the line stamped in blind on dark blue; Septimus Piesse's holiday book for children Chymical, Natural, and Physical Magic (1865) has a white cloth cover printed in six colours and gold; an 1887 edition of The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne has, in bright gilt on blue cloth, an owl, two bats, a snail, two mice, a swallow, a spider in its web and a variety of foliage, including ivy, fields grasses and cornstalks.
1980	The mice in the fable had the problem of how to bell the cat.
1987	Instead of being treated to the confrontation between the great lion Aslan and the forces of hell, we sat and watched a game of cat and mouse.
1990	It did not matter that I had rejected my father's ways, that I had become a marine and was as poor as a church mouse while McIllvanney had become a rich man; the stench of privilege still clung to me and McIllvanney loved to discomfort me because of it.
1992	I asked Sarah and Mouse, who, as it turned out, were from Slough.
1992	Sarah had her hair in plaits, and Mouse had his in a ponytail.
1992	‘There's too many rich kids ‘ere,’ said Mouse, taking care to drop his aitches.
1992	‘Fuck off,’ said Sarah, and walked away laughing with Mouse.
1992	Squealing mice seemed bedded in my ears, and green hoppity things abounded, but right smack in my mind's eye were two teams of digitised Ice Hockey players fighting it out in front of a packed stadium.
1988	Nine laps later, he was thirteenth; at the halfway mark, eighth; seventh came when Niki Lauda went off spectacularly; sixth when he overtook a faltering Mike Hailwood; fifth when on lap fifty-five he overtook Reutemann after many laps of cat and mouse with the Argentine, never an easy man to get by; fourth, his finishing position, when his team-mate François Cevert gallantly waved him by.
1979	The realization that he was the mouse came instinctively, quickly followed by the slightly ludicrous observation that someone had made a gigantic balls-up.
1989	New research has shown that UVA causes severe ageing changes in the skin of mice and it is virtually certain that humans get degenerative changes, too, and perhaps acceleration of skin cancers.
1989	One distressing sequence we filmed in the laboratories portrayed mice with their little noses pushed into holes in a plastic tube along which was passed tobacco smoke equivalent to that inhaled by a human on twenty cigarettes a  day.
1989	I forget now what the simulated time factor was — I think twenty years — but the upshot was that three-quarters of the mice developed lung cancer and died.
1989	The remains of a table and chair told of more ordered times, spiders were everywhere, a mouse scuttled across the dirt floor startling the younger children who squeaked with fear.
1991	I would have caught up with you earlier but I saw you talking to that poor downtrodden mouse of a Haynes woman and waited till she'd gone.
1991	Mice?
1991	When computer salespeople start talking about bytes and mice, beware.
1991	While all this is going on, the computer salesperson will repeatedly use the customer's Christian name: ‘Now, John, you see that when I do this with the mouse…
1968	Glue and plywood or mice in the gliders
1968	Now an unpleasant smell in a wooden structure is due to one of three things; drains, mice or rot and they all smell very similar.
1968	Mice entered aircraft in pursuit of sandwich crumbs, usually under the floorboards.
1968	Mark dealt with mice by obtaining an official issue of cats.
1992	Of Mice And Men, a new version of the classic John Steinbeck novel, has won high praise.
1992	MICKEY Mouse has met millions of children in his time, but few as brave as little Amelia Paskins.
1992	The children are split into groups of 16, each named after a fictional character such as Mickey Mouse.
1992	Mighty Mouse rules 40 years on
1992	After all the excitement, the journey home was a subdued affair and it wasn't long before the children fell asleep, many of them snuggling up to their new Mickey Mouse toys.
1992	‘When I go out I switch on the video and know my cats are having a good time looking at visions of snakes, hippos, mice, rabbits — oh, just about everything.
1992	The vicar who seemed as poor as a church mouse gave no clue to his wealth as he chatted happily to convicted robbers.
1991	It said: ‘To removing one dead mouse from storage radiator — 50p.’
1991	Mice.
1990	They're harder to see than a high-speed mouse.
1990	‘This doesn't look a mouse kind of place.’
1990	‘I'm not going to be told that we're just things like rats and mice.
1990	‘One of the humans has just said, ‘It must have been a mouse or something,’ and the other one said, ‘You show me a mouse wearing clothes and I'll admit it was a mouse.’
1990	And the giving-out-food woman said, ‘It was no mouse saw.
1990	If we can get him out before he's caught, they're bound to thin, k it was a mouse or something!’
1990	‘But they haven't got time to look for something that was probably a mouse,’ said Masklin.
1990	‘It's not a mouse, it's Angalo!’
1990	‘But afterwards they'll think it was a mouse.
1990	Even if they think we're mice.
1990	I wouldn't put up with mice on something like this if I was them.
1990	You know what mice are like for widdling on wires.
1990	Could be dangerous when you're ten miles high, a mouse going to the lavatory inside  your computer.
1988	The terror of every mouse,
1991	They look like deliciously glamorous mice, don't you agree, Ludo?
1991	Isn't she just like a lovely little mouse, so sweet you could eat her?’
1990	‘And he's ruined ours as well!’ cried the mice.
1990	‘Mice?
1990	But no mice, shrews or moles remained to be seen.
1990	And if the shouting weren't bad enough, all of a sudden the mice began wailing: ‘The brute is loose!
1990	‘She's about to get et up, too,’ added the mice.
1990	There's Anabelle,’ said one of the mice.
1990	‘OOO!’ gasped the mice.
1990	‘Hey!’ squealed the mice.
1990	The mice were next, and the frogs and shrews.
1990	‘We don't eat bugs,’ snipped the mice.
1990	Shrews and mice — I would suggest looking over there under that apple tree.’
1990	The mice scurried across the grass to a slender apple tree, and lo and behold—‘Sunflower seeds!’ screeched the mice.
1990	The little mice…took notice of the pattern of that wonderful coat.
1990	By using menus, mice and pointers, NCR makes every ‘industry standard’ software package look and feel alike.
1990	For example, the application of the regular past-tense morpheme -ed to irregular verbs (‘go-ed’; ‘run-ed’) or the use of the irregular plural /s/ with irregular nouns (‘sheeps’; ‘mouses’) suggests that children overgeneralise simple rules to non-appropriate target words.
1992	Hard going in places, it provides a handbook for individuals who've had it with ‘Mickey Mouse politics’.
1992	High Hair Volumising Mouse from Wella was used by Mane Street of Bournemouth to create this look
1992	Now use the four-arrow icon by holding down the left mouse button on the left pointing arrow, so as to make sure that you are as far to the left as possible.
1992	Next hold the mouse button down on the downward pointing arrow, so to make sure that you are starting at square or row one.
1992	(You can easily check that you have square and row one at the bottom left, by clicking on the pencil icon with the left mouse button and taking the cross pointer into the first bottom left square.
1992	Having placed the design on screen and ensured that you are at Row one, Column one, within Magnify, click on to the printer icon with the right mouse button.
1992	Draw a square around the whole design screen using the right mouse button to vary the box and click the left mouse button twice.
1992	Holding the left mouse button on the right pointing arrow to move the magnified area to the right.
1992	When completed, click with the right mouse button on the printer icon, select boxed print and draw the squares as before, then click the left mouse button twice.
1992	Move the magnified area up by holding down the mouse button on the up arrow and stop at row 39.
1992	Click on the printer icon with the right mouse button.
1992	Click the right mouse button on the boxed printer icon and draw the box around the whole design screen using the right mouse button.
1992	Click the left mouse button twice and the design area will print out sideways.
1992	When you are satisfied with the design, select the print icon with the right mouse button, and check that CENTRE IMAGE, ENLARGE and FORM FEED icons are on and select ‘print within box’ icon.
1992	Click the left mouse button twice and your card design will be printed.
1992	To make a choice from any menu, the Arrow keys (or mouse if you have one) are used to move a highlight bar to the appropriate place before pressing the ENTER key to select the option.
1992	A mouse can be used but is not essential.
1992	At the top just below the left-hand mouse icon, there is box CM.
1992	Take the cursor into the CM box and click the right mouse button.
1992	Now click the mouse button on the 2 box.
1992	When you have entered the measurements for rows and stitches, click the mouse button anywhere within the black area of the submenu box.
1992	Selecting from the menu can be done in the usual way, by moving the highlight bar with the arrow keys (or mouse) and then pressing the ENTER key to make your selection.
1992	Freehand designing or editing of an existing design is done by moving a cursor around the grid with either the arrow keys or a mouse.
1992	Using the arrow keys or mouse, you are then able to move the outlined shape around the stitch pattern.
1990	The Op produced a Mickey Mouse snuffbox full of white  powder.
1992	ONE group of men turned the tide of the Gulf War against Saddam Hussein — and they did it by tying up thousands of Iraqi soldiers in a deadly, sophisticated and top secret game of cat and mouse in the desert.
1992	A deadly game of cat and mouse follows and Ryan is faced with an even deadlier challenge when he gets home to the United States.
1992	Then you notice there's a pub attached to it called the Wight Mouse Inn which sells six superb real ales, 365 different whiskies and has live music every night.
1992	The owner of the Wight Mouse Inn will tell you jokingly that his sign actually means ‘most children welcome’.
1992	Mickey mouse
1992	SHOCKED council officials found a mouse's head in the kitchen when they raided Mr Wong's Chinese takeaway.
1992	It's pilau MICE at free Sun Indian!
1992	They found mice droppings in the rice containers and a colony of cockroaches in the kitchens.
1992	Danger mouse
1992	A MOUSE brought rush-hour chaos to Birmingham when it bit through wires in a traffic light control unit.
1988	Found a rather large mouse in his stew.
1988	‘There is no point’, she said, ‘in you sitting in class doing nothing while I am teaching the rest of the form the two-times table and how to spell cat and rat and mouse.
1988	‘Did you know’, Matilda said suddenly, ‘that the heart of a mouse beats at the rate of six hundred and fifty times a minute ?’
1988	‘It's not as fast as a mouse,’ Matilda said.
1992	And you hear the mice scamper back into their holes.
1992	‘You get Mickey Mouse decisions when you come to Elland Road — that's how Leeds managed to win the title.
1992	From Sunday lunch-time to breakfast today, their mountain of prevaricating committees have laboured without bringing forth even a mouse.
1992	When they do, you can bet the mouse of Lord's will be both white-washed and sugared!
1993	Completing the top alternative line-up on the Fiddler stage are Spiritualized, Captain America, The Disposable Heroes Of Hiphoprisy, Miracle Legion, Fabulous, 25th Of May, Stereolab, Pulp and Jacob's Mouse.
1993	Support comes from Jacob's Mouse and Loveblobs.
1993	Over on ‘the other side’ there was Benny Hill, Hughie Green, and sexy vaudeville fun from the likes of Norman Vaughan, Gracie Fields, Frankie Howerd, Italian mouse puppet Topo Gigio, Tommy Trinder and (some years later) The Rolling Stones on Sunday night At The London Palladium .
1993	And you can take bloody Steve Lamacq and Jacob's Mouse with you — IM
1991	The overgrown grass, hedges and piles of wood are a haven for mice, which are among the tawnies' favourite food.
1991	Rabbits and foxes are common enough to be regarded as a nuisance; there are also hedgehogs, voles, mice and other rodents.
1991	Meanwhile, the larger birds of prey were tucking into things like mice, rats, chicks and rabbits.
1991	Even less familiar sounds upset her, but then barn owls do have excellent hearing — they can hear a mouse moving on a woodland floor during a gale-force wind.
1991	Birds in the wild don't have much variety in their diet — it really doesn't seem to bother them — but I give Dawn mice sometimes, and a rat every now and again as a ‘treat’.
1991	I wasn't used to handling dead things, like chicks, not to mention mammals like rats and mice.
1991	In the wild, a barn owl would take refuge in a barn and would probably manage to catch mice there.
1991	I said that owls couldn't run very fast and so they had to fly to catch mice, which could run fast.
1991	ABOVE Inside the local quarry — the owls probably like the peace and quiet, and the leaf litter is full of mice and insects.
1991	There turned out to be plenty of field mice and short-tailed shrews, various larger insects and the odd rat about, so we concluded that there was more than enough food in the vicinity to sustain our pair.
1991	Now and then we would feed them twice this number of mice, just to vary their diet.
1989	Too small to see in the photograph are three ivory mice in the mouse-trap that was an inevitable part of kitchen equipment of the period.
1991	‘My husband was sound asleep with his mouth wide open when the cat ran into the room chasing a mouse!’
1991	‘Well, the mouse jumped straight into his mouth and disappeared down his throat!’ explained the woman.
1991	‘Dangle some cheese in your husband's mouth to lure the mouse out.’
1991	‘But can you catch mice?’
1992	…and Mickey Mouse as Official Mascot!
1992	…and MICKEY MOUSE as Official Mascot!
1992	A paper suggested that, in keeping with the selection of the management team, Mickey Mouse should be adopted as the official mascot.
1989	This sparrow-sized bird is dull brown and grey in colour, and since it spends much of its time scurrying around on the ground, it often looks more like a mouse than a bird.
1989	The male roadrunner of North America offers his mate a dead mouse as a precursor to mating.
1989	Below A bullfrog from Kenya, East Africa, consuming a mouse.
1989	As a rule the victim is an insect, but certain large centipedes — and they may measure up to 30 cm (12 in) long — have been seen to capture toads and mice.
1989	These two lizards use their venom to kill their prey, which comprises small mammals such as mice and birds.
1991	But the men liked the giants' tricks: one used to swallow and then regurgitate long arrows, as in a circus; and another, who allowed himself to be called Juan and learned some biblical phrases, caught and ate all the rats and mice on board, to the entertainment of the men and the pleasure of the cook.
1991	To divert the puppy from furniture and other household items, provide a ‘chew’ or toy, such as this mouse.
1986	The sounds seemed very far off and yet distinct and he had the sensation of a secret, sinister busy-ness, like the scrabbling of mice behind the wainscot.
1990	The project consists of isolation and analysis of genomic clones encoding neurotransmitter receptor genes and their expression in foreign host cells and in transgenic mice.
1983	The other little drawer contained a jumble of trinkets and keepsakes; some, like the pearl drop on a gold chain, were valuable; others, like  a battered old Mickey Mouse pencil-sharpener, must have had sentimental value.
1991	Most of these smaller cats live and hunt largely in the trees, taking anything from insects and mice to small monkeys.
1991	The dense, lush forests harbour many little known and rarely seen creatures, like this diminutive mouse deer (above).
1991	One small island, Koh Terutau, off Thailand, has at least nine endemic subspecies of squirrels, five of common tree shrews and three of lesser mouse deer.
1991	Tarsiers feed mainly on insects and their larvae but can catch small lizards, fledgling birds, spiders and forest mice.
1992	Plans for Christmas should surely find room for Wendy Phillips' bear and Jane Platt's mouse — see Picture Knitting and Kaleidoscope , but if you have no plans you'll find inspiration in Masterclass .
1992	Andy: ‘The whole song is an observation about the way everyone seems f—ed up, like the line, ‘Mickey Mouse needs speed’.
1992	Mickey Mouse is the symbol of healthy American children, but underneath that there are kids — like yesterday on the TV news — who are shooting their teachers in school.’
1992	JOHN PEEL tinkers away into the small hours with only Loudon Wainwright III and Jacob's Mouse for company.
1992	DISCS RADIOHEAD * JACOB'S MOUSE * AFGHAN WHIGS * PULP DAISY CHAINSAW * JOYRIDERS * and, ulp, THE SEVENTIES Huge, ever-growing, pulsating 72-page issue from the centre of the universe JOHN PEEL reviews ‘RUBY TRAX’ Plus: how to get it!
1992	HOLY JOY, VIC GODARD and JACOB'S MOUSE are among the bands contributing tracks to forthcoming Rough Trade Singles Club mail order releases.
1992	At times it was like watching a cat toying with a mouse, so complete was Fiji's mastery in a 22–6 win.
1992	The Free State front row was also impressive and it you can imagine three Mighty Mouse McLauchlans, well then you have them.
1991	‘I got a job, see, working in Jonah's bakery, hate it I do, sweeping up the floor and chasing the mice away and, worst of all, I has to get inside the ovens and clean them.
1992	Regional Railways is operating a steam special from Didcot to Kidderminster using the ‘Mickey Mouse’ No. 46521.
1992	The train is likely to be ‘top and tailed’ with a class 37 diesel electric locomotive on the opposite end to the ‘Mickey Mouse’.
1989	Even the mouse and the cynic are constantly making an exhibition of themselves.
1993	What the mouse now feeds upon
1992	All of this finally resulted in’ Maus’, his book-length comic strip version of the Holocaust in which pigs stand in for Nazis and mice for Jews.
1993	It is here that the visual cat and mouse game in nature becomes so fascinating lending itself to multifold design possibilities.
1989	But his first recorded journey, crying all the way, aged two, was with his sister Cecilia, on a bus, poor as mice, travelling the four miles from the Welsh heartland of  Pontrhydyfen, with its magical stories, its heroes, its dragons, to Port Talbot, tough steel town, English-speaking, grind and grime.
1992	It had already shared dinner and such a tough mouse deserved all the nourishment it could get.
1992	As soon as the first insipid light filtered through the entrance, I was glad to make tepid tea and chewy porridge garnished with mouse droppings, while enjoying a limited success in coaxing Roger from his marginally more substantial pit.
1993	Our perception of spermatozoa was changed forever by Woody Allen's impersonation of one in Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex, and University of Pennsylvania are giving substance to his fantasies, putting the poor little tadpoles through an arduous obstacle course to step up the process of survival of the fittest: according to Prodigy Services Co, the mad scientists have created a new class of silicon chip that can be used for analyzing sperm samples and providing a venue for fertilisation; the technology uses microscopic obstacle courses inside a silicon wafer to weed out unhealthy sperm, and has been used successfully to fertilise a mouse egg; the chips are etched with a virtual theme park of twisting channels, forests of columns, and other features designed to ensure only the strongest of sperm reach their goal, with some passages so small that only a single cell can pass; the researchers have not yet applied for approval to test human fertilisation using the chip, but say that could happen within the next 12 months — Brave New World, or the embodiment of virtual sex.
1993	The new Powerstation 23T is a workstation model with a Gt1x graphics adaptor with appropriate cable, 400Mb disk, keyboard, mouse and a new Powerdisplay 16S standard at $8,500; without the display it's a 23W at $6,700.
1993	They come with Powerdisplay 16, Gt4e colour graphics adapter, keyboard, mouse, 32Mb memory and 400Mb disk; prices go from $12,950 to $25,070.
1993	Austin, Texas-based Dell Computer Corp keeps them coming — yesterday added seven new 80486-based Dimension personal computers at from $1,400 including colour monitor and enhanced graphics built in through an integrated local bus video system: the systems also include 4Mb, 170Mb disk, 3.5’ and 5.25’floppies, 512Kb video RAM MS-DOS 6.0 and Windows 3.1 installed, and mouse.
1991	‘She's bloody clever, and poor as a church mouse.
1992	The glossary has been increased to include the latest computer terms — such as fourth generation languages, viewdata, and mouse.
1991	The Broad Street group, the radicals in Bristol normally critical of the BFASS, and Harriet Martineau, attacked the Stafford Mouse preference for an amelioration policy in America as a retreat from the fundamental principle of immediatism.
1991	A selection of cartoons relate the story of Banger Mango, his pet mouse Reginald (who likes to go flying) and Banger's friend Pranger Bailey, who go in search of the Abominable Snowman.
1993	‘Grimm racing off to protect her…as soon set a mouse to escort a cat!
1991	He later cites more complex examples of bats bumping into things, and laboratory mice that are ‘induced to leap into empty space with the conviction that there is a safe landing’(47).
1991	Clark could be implying that the doings of the bats and mice are the pre-verbal beginnings of self-consciousness, of which he provides a reasonable working definition.
1991	Cats have been known to laze, apparently half-asleep, for up to an hour beside a mouse hole, yet instantly to cut down the unwary prey that, even momentarily, shows itself.
1991	If we accept it, as many people seem to with enthusiasm, then we would have to include the rats, mice, dogs, cats, and numerous other creatures used in the laboratory, in our outcry over the revelations about the sale of microcephalic infants.
1991	The casual shooting of a chimpanzee or a horse is surely regarded as more reprehensible than routinely stepping on a beetle or laying a trap for mice.
1991	It is not just that beetles and mice are pests (we might have said the same of ladybirds and the pursuit of wildfowl), but rather that the relative similarity of the larger mammals to ourselves materially affects our thinking and is reflected in our instinctive responses.
1991	Just over 3 million experiments were performed upon animals, mostly rats and mice.
1991	Martin Stephens and Andrew Rowan are two of many such sympathisers in the USA; Rowan's Of Mice, Models and Men (1984) being particularly highly regarded.
1991	Rats and mice account for 75–80 per cent, 0.5 per cent are dogs, 0.2 per cent cats, and the remaining 20 per cent mainly comprises smaller rodents and other vertebrates like fish and birds.
1991	The sheer numbers of creatures involved, particularly rats and mice, demands that where practicable they are bred for the purpose.
1983	Recent advances include the calculation of the numbers of chromosomal loci and genes involved in such relatively complicated behaviours as dominance and drug aversive behaviour in mice and the epigenetic rules of colour preference in birds (Thompson & Thoday, 1979).
1989	Were one to create a mouse the size of a moose, that mouse would probably have a folded neocortex if its cortex had increased in proportion to the increase in its body size.
1989	If you do this sort of calculation and compare mice and monkeys you find that monkeys have much more brain than would a mouse of equivalent size (Russell 1978).
1989	This indicates that there is something that distinguishes monkey from mouse brains other than the relative sizes of the two species.
1989	This guidance is, of course, not available in smooth-brained animals like rats and mice, and in these it is extremely difficult to make accurate cortical removals.
1991	The body of a — mouse?) and considered the household now shut away around her in the spring darkness.
1991	She turned on her side so that, if the mouse on the ceiling began a stealthy movement, she would not see it.
1993	Qualix Group Inc, San Mateo, California, has announced KeyIt, a $200 software product that will let Sparc users create hot-key activated macro commands that correspond to any sequence of keyboard or mouse inputs.
1993	To speed Windows performance, SoftPC 3.0 includes special Windows display and mouse drivers that map Windows display and mouse instructions directly to the Motif environment.
1993	‘Are you a man or mouse, boy?
1993	AT, EISA and Micro Channel bus-compatible, it integrates Printgine parallel port, floppy disk interface, Intelligent Disk Interface control logic, two industry-standard universal asynchronous receiver-transmitters and a PS/2 mouse port.
1993	The new release includes Isredit macros via REXX in OS/2 and MS-DOS, instant loading of large files, fully mappable keyboard and mouse, keyboard macros and complete integration with the Micro Focus Cobol Workbench.
1993	In addition, two serial ports, one parallel port, one PS/2-compatible mouse port, keyboard port and IDE drive interface are all integrated onto the motherboard to save on expansion slots.
1993	The modules include VPL DataGlove, Polhemus 3Space and Fastrak trackers, three-dimensional mouse, stereo three-dimensional displays for computer screen and projection or head-mounted displays, speech recognition, sound synthesis and a three-dimensional graphics generator; it runs on Unix workstations.
1993	Mouse clicks
1993	Scorers will use mouse clicks to mark off, on-screen, details like where each ball bowled landed, whether a run was scored, whether a wicket fell, and which players caught which batsmen out.
1993	Moreover, ICL's wholly-owned personal computer reseller, Technology Plc, believes that the company's new machines are unique in terms of style, their conformance to ergonomic standards — especially as, according to ICL, 1993 will be the year of ergonomics — and their inclusion of ICL's integrated Powermaster system, which is designed to conserve energy — if, after a pre-defined time, a user doesn't operate his mouse or keyboard, then a control program blanks out the screen.
1993	All ErgoPro's come pre-loaded with MS-DOS 5, Windows 3.1 plus mouse, and have hard disks of 85Mb, 120Mb, 170Mb, 245Mb and 525Mb.
1993	Voicetype Control For Windows sounds like it may be a deliberate attempt to make Windows users unpopular with their colleagues — it enables them to replace various keyboard and mouse commands with the spoken word.
1993	IBM is usually pretty forthcoming about the markets that it foresees for its products, but in this case limits itself to saying that it will appeal to professionals who would prefer ‘easy-to-remember voice commands’ to complicated keystrokes or mouse movements.
1993	Industrial applications include two- and three-dimensional eye controllers for virtual reality applications and video games using head-mounted displays, biosignal pattern recognition for teleoperator robotics, two- and three-dimensional eye controlled computer mice; stress management systems for cars or work environments and audio pattern recognition.
1993	High resolution graphics and a mouse are also essential.
1993	The pilot of the future will fly by the flick of her Macintosh mouse — or at least she will gain access to vital information she needs by that means, following that agreement between Apple Computer Inc and Honeywell Inc's Minneapolis-based Honeywell Air Transport Systems Division.
1993	To speed up Windows performance, SoftPC 3.0 includes special Windows display and mouse drivers that map Windows display and mouse instructions directly to the Motif environment.
1993	Reuter says that with the help of General Media International Inc, the Penthouse magazine empire has just launched a dial-up service in the US where for a monthly fee plus usage, lechers can view their favourite Pets from their personal computer, ask them to perform various acts — and play photographer, taking shots with the mouse while the model performs…
1993	A denizen of the government whips' office in the Commons, a mouse nicknamed ‘Maastricht’, was killed.
1993	One of the mouse hunters, David Heathcoat-Amory, was made minister for Europe.
1993	Sections of mouse embryos from E11 to E15 were labelled with probes derived from the common EGF-like region of the GGF gene.
1993	Dark-field micrographs of sections through E13 mouse embryos showing high GGF expression in the motor columns of the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglia.
1993	Dark-field micrograph showing expression of GGF mRNA in the trigeminal ganglion (tg) in an E11 mouse embryo.
1993	Dark-field micrograph of a hybridization of an E11 mouse embryo showing hybridization to cells in the marginal zone of the diencephalon (d).
1993	The analysis was done as described in ref. 49, with minor modifications; mice and rats gave essentially similar results.
1993	Mouse embryos were fixed by immersion for 2–3h in 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1M phosphate-buffered saline (PBS).
1993	Lysates from control Rat-1/c-Myc-ER cells (lanes 1 and 2) and a representative Rat-1/c-Myc-ER/Bcl-2 clone (clone 5)(lanes 3 and 4) were fractionated on a 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gel, blotted onto nitrocellulose paper and probed with either mouse (Bcl-2/100; lanes 1 and 3) or a hamster (6C8; lanes 2 and 4) anti-Bcl-2 monoclonal antibodies.
1993	Immunoblotting of bulk cultures of puromycin-resistant cells was as described, using either the Bcl-2/100 mouse monoclonal antibody (gift from D. Y. Mason) or the 6C8 hamster monoclonal antibody (gift from S. J. Korsmeyer).
1993	SRY , a gene cloned from the sex-determining region of the human Y chromosome, has been equated with the testis-determining factor in man and mouse.
1993	The SRY homologues, together with the mouse Ube1y homologues, are the first genes to be identified on the marsupial Y chromosome.
1993	These genes have been described previously in mouse, rat, man,Drosophila and birds.
1993	By analogy to the testis-determining function of mouse Sry , the Y-linked marsupial SRY homologue is expected to be necessary for testis determination, but confirmation of this hypothesis will require functional studies.
1993	Our data are consistent with gonadal sex being determined by the same gene in all mammals and, together with the evidence for a marsupial Y-borne homologue of the mouse Ubely , provide support for a monophyletic origin of the mammalian Y chromosome.
1993	FIG. 3 Protein sequence alignments of the 79-amino-acid (single-letter code) highly conserved DNA-binding motif from the Y-borne SRY homologues of S. macroura, M. eugenii,human, rabbit and mouse.
1993	A search of the EMBL/GenBank and SwissProt databases using the FASTA program reveals that the CL100 nucleotide sequence is 86.6% identical to a recently characterized mouse cDNA (3CH134) for a growth factor-inducible immediate early gene and has significant amino-acid sequence similarity to the Ser/Tyr-phosphatase encoded by the late gene H1 of vaccinia virus.
1993	The mouse cDNA encodes a protein of 367 amino acids which is 96.5% identical to the CL100 polypeptide and is clearly the mouse homologue of our human gene.
1993	We conclude that the CL100 gene and its mouse homologue represent a new subclass of mammalian PTPase in that they show no significant similarity to any human PTPase yet discovered other than the presence of the highly conserved active-site sequence.
1993	b , Sequence alignment of the predicted CL100 open reading frame with those of the mouse 3CH134 cDNA, the vaccinia virus H1 gene, human placental PTP-1B (HPTP) and T-cell PTP (TPTP).
1993	To investigate the molecular basis for the wide specificity of protein G for IgG, we prepared crystals of the complex between the third IgG-binding domain of protein G and an Fab fragment from mouse IgG1 (ref. 5).
1993	All the side chains from the heavy chain involved in hydrogen bonding or hydrophobic interactions are highly conserved in all four gamma heavy chain subclasses in mouse and human.
1993	THE principal protein excreted in male rat urine, urinary α2 -globulin and the homologous mouse protein, major urinary protein, have been well characterized, although their functions remain unclear.
1993	We now report the three-dimensional structures of mouse major urinary protein (at 2.4Å resolution) and rat urinary α 2-globulin (at 2.8Å resolution).
1993	The sequences of rat urinary α 2-globulin (A2U) and mouse major urinary protein (MUP) show them both to be members of the lipocalin protein family.
1993	Mutations in several Pax genes lead to severe developmental abnormalities:(1) a mutation in the paired box of murine Pax-1 leads to the undulated phenotype which exhibits distortions of the vertebral column;(2) a mutation in the Pax-6 gene leads to the semidominant Small eye phenotype in mouse and a mutation in the putative human homologue of this gene may be responsible for the aniridia disorder;(3) mutations in the putative human homologue to Pax-3 (HuP2 ) occasionally lead to hearing loss associated with Waardenburg's syndrome, whereas in mouse a deletion in Pax-3 causes the splotch phenotype which is associated with spina bifida, exencephaly, a tail flexion defect and deficiencies in neural crest cell derivatives.
1993	To analyse whether other putative developmental control genes expressed at the midbrain-hindbrain boundary were affected by antibody injections, we examined the expression of the zebrafish homologues of murine Wnt-1 and En-2 , genes that are important for the normal formation of this region in mice.
1993	In zebrafish (for mouse, see ref. 26), transcripts of engrailed genes are confined to the posterior midbrain and the presumptive cerebellum at 14h of development (Fig. 4 f ).
1993	All of these phenomena, including the formation of an actin cable, are seen also in the healing of analogous types of wounds in the mouse embryo (P.M., J. McCluskey and J. L., manuscript in preparation).
1993	A shorter half-life of lymphocytes expressing the lower- M r isoforms has also been observed in sheep, whereas cells with a ‘naive’ phenotype persist for long periods in mice after adoptive transfer.
1993	Attempts to identify a murine homologue of LFA-3 led to the unexpected finding that mouse CD2 interacts with a different molecule, BCM1 (CD48)49 .
1993	Analysis of mice carrying mutant T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) genes indicates that TCR- β gene rearrangement or expression is critical for the differentiation of CD4 -CD8 -thymocytes to CD4 + CD8 + thymocytes, as well as for the expansion of the pool of CD4 + CD8 + cells.
1993	Indeed, analysis of severe combined immunodeficiency (scid)mice carrying rearranged TCR transgenes indicated that TCR- β gene rearrangement or expression could be instrumental in the DN to DP transition.
1993	Here we use gene targeting to introduce a mutation in the TCR α or β genes into the germ line of mice.
1993	Initial analysis of these mice revealed that TCR- β gene rearrangement or expression is necessary for the maintenance of normal thymocyte number and the DN to DP transition.
1993	Our results show that a single rearranged TCR- β gene introduced as a transgene can quantitatively convert DN cells to DP cells from DN cells that have accumulated in mice mutant for the recombination activating gene-1 (RAG-1)and increase the total thymocyte number to the normal level.
1993	For both the TCR- α and TCR -β mutations, intercrosses between heterozygous mice gave rise to homozygous mutant mice at the expected frequency of 25%.
1993	The numbers of total thymocytes were determined for TCR -α and TCR- β mutant mice, and for mice doubly homozygous for the TCR -α and TCR -β mutations (called TCR αxβ mutant mice).
1993	Whereas the thymuses of TCR -α mutant mice contained similar numbers of cells to those of normal littermates (Fig. 2 a),the thymuses of the TCR- β mutant mice contained fewer cells, ranging from 6- to 60-fold less than those of normal littermates (Fig. 2 a).
1993	TCR αxβ mutant mice had similar numbers of thymocytes as TCR- β mutant mice (Fig. 2a).
1993	The importance of TCR- β in regulating the total number of thymocytes was also demonstrated by crossing a functionally rearranged TCR -β transgene into the RAG-1 mutant mice.
1993	As shown in Fig. 3a,thymuses of TCR -α mutant mice are largely devoid of CD4 or CD8 SP cells but retain normal numbers of small DP cells without the interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor (IL-2R -DP cells)(Fig. 2b).
1993	There is also no difference in the number of DN cells in TCR- α mutant mice as compared to wild-type littermates (Fig. 3a).
1993	The overall results indicate that expression of a rearranged TCR- α chain is unnecessary either for the progression of thymocytes from the DN to DP stage or for the expansion of the DP cells to the levels of wild-type mice.
1993	Finally, as in the thymuses of wild-type littermates, about 1% of the cells bear γ  TCR in the thymus of the TCR -α mutant mice, as determined by the anti-TCR- monoclonal antibody 3A10 (ref. 3)(Fig. 3b).
1993	The thymuses of TCR- β mutant mice are different from those of wild-type littermates, not only in the total cell number (on average  8% of wild type) but also in their cellular composition.
1993	The increase in the proportion of DN cells in TCR- β mutant mice is due to the reduction in the numbers of DP cells: the number per thymus of each DN subpopulation is not altered by the introduction of the TCR- β mutation (Figs 2 a, 3a and b).
1993	To evaluate whether TCR -β rearrangement or expression is necessary for this transition, we introduced the TCR -β mutation to TCR -mutant mice (to be described elsewhere), in which we found that αβ T cells develop normally and normal numbers of DN, DP and SP thymocytes are present.
1993	But introduction of the TCR- β mutation into the TCR- mutant mice abolishes virtually all DP cells and eliminates SP cells entirely (Fig. 3 a ), indicating that TCR -β rearrangement or expression is required for the DN to DP transition, at least in the principal differentiation pathway of αβ T cells.
1993	We investigated whether this role of TCR -β in αβ thymocyte differentiation supersedes rearrangement or expression of TCR- α gene by crossing the TCR- α and TCR -β mutant mice.
1993	As shown in Figs 2a, b and 3a,the thymuses of the TCR αxβ mutant mice were similar to those of the TCR- β mutant mice by our criteria.
1993	As we reported previously,αβ T-cell differentiation is blocked at a DN stage in RAG-1 mutant mice.
1993	Introduction of the transgenic TCR- β gene not only restored the total number of thymocytes to the levels of wild-type mice (Fig. 2a),but allowed nearly complete transition of the large, IL-2R-positive, DN cells to the small, IL-2R-negative DP cells (Fig. 2 b).
1993	These results demonstrate that a single productively rearranged TCR -β gene provides a sufficient signal for the transition of αβ lineage cells from a DN stage (at least the stage reached in the RAG-1 mutant mice) to a DP stage, and for the expansion of these DP cells to the normal level.
1993	We investigated rearrangement of TCR -α genes in the thymuses of the TCR -β mutant and other mice by Southern blot analysis using two probes simultaneously, a 5'J α1 probe and a C α probe.
1993	In the thymuses of the wild-type and TCR -β (as well as TCR -α)heterozygous mice, rearrangement has occurred at nearly half of the TCR- α alleles (see Fig. 4 legend for definition of the rearrangement index, RI (α)).
1993	Although somewhat reduced, the rearrangement is substantial in the thymuses of TCR -β (as well as TCR- α)mutant mice.
1993	In support of the Southern blot data, thymuses of TCR -α mutant mice contain, albeit at a reduced level compared to the thymuses of wild-type or other mice, TCR -α transcripts of sizes expected from the fully rearranged gene (Fig. 4b).
1993	Using a 5'D β1 probe we examined at TCR -β rearrangement in the different mice, including RAG-1 mutant mice in which no TCR rearrangement occurs (Fig. 4 c).
1993	TCR -β rearrangement in the thymocytes of TCR -α mutant mice was as extensive as that in wild-type or TCR- α heterozygous mice, as indicated by the virtual disappearance of the germ-line band and the presence of several bands corresponding to DJ rearrangements.
1993	In contrast to thymocyte DNA from TCR -α mutant mice, thymocyte DNA from TCR -β mutant mice gave rise to no detectable DJ bands and a mutant germ-line band as intense as brain DNA (negative control) from the same mutant mice.
1993	The lack of rearrangement may be caused by a loss of an as-yet unidentified cis -acting rearrangement-promoting element, as suggested by the dramatic differences in the extent of rearrangement in the wild-type and mutant alleles coexisting in the same thymocytes of TCR -β heterozygous mice (Fig. 4 c,third lane from right).
1993	Extensive rearrangement and transcription of the TCR -β locus in TCR -α mutant mice provides a potential for synthesis of TCR- β polypeptide chains and even their cell-surface expression on thymocytes.
1993	Indeed, a small fraction of thymocytes of TCR- α mutant mice seems to be stained weakly by the anti-TCR- β antibody H57–597 (Figs 3a and 5).
1993	Surface expression of TCR -β chains was clearly seen with thymocytes derived from TCR -α mutant mice or RAG-1 mutant mice, into which a transgenic TCR -β gene was introduced; virtually all of these thymocytes were stained with H57–597 at levels higher than the TCR- β surface-positive thymocytes from TCR -α mutant mice (Figs 3a and 5).
1993	The occurrence of these cells in TCR -β transgenic RAG-1 mutant mice suggests that at least some of the surface TCR- β chains are not associated with any of the other known complete TCR polypeptide chains.
1993	A few CD4-positive lymphocytes became increasingly detectable with age in the peripheral lymphoid organs and in the blood of TCR- α mutant mice but not in TCR -β mutant mice, which stained weakly with antibodies against TCR -β and CD3- .
1993	As an example, staining patterns of lymphocytes from mesenteric lymph nodes of a 9-month-old TCR -α mutant mouse and 8-month-old TCR -β mutant mouse are shown in Fig. 6 a.
1993	We observed an equally small population of CD4-positive dull TCR- β -positive cells in the periphery of TCR- β transgenic TCR α mutant mice (data not shown).
1993	In both the TCR -α and TCR -β mutant mice,γ  T-cell development in the thymus appears to be unaltered; the number of γ  thymocytes is the same as in wild-type mice (Fig. 3 b).
1993	The numbers of γ  T cells in the spleen, lymph nodes and gut epithelium are similar or slightly increased in young mutant mice as compared to wild-type littermates (an example for the spleen is shown in Fig. 6 b).
1993	The conclusion that TCR- β is sufficient is based on the observations that both the severe drop in total thymocyte numbers (to about 1% of the wild-type level) and the blockade at a DN stage in the RAG-1 mutant mice are fully restored upon introduction of a productively rearranged TCR- β transgene.
1993	These observations differ from earlier findings in which scid mice were host for the same TCR -β transgene.
1993	In these TCR -β transgenic scid mice the number of double-positive cells reaches only about 2% of wild-type level and the total number of thymocytes is about 3% of wild-type.
1993	The origin of the small number (about 5% of the wild-type level) of DP cells remaining in the thymus of TCR -β mutant mice is unclear.
1993	Alternatively, these cells may belong to the γ  T-cell lineage because they are virtually abolished when TCR -mutation is introduced into the TCR- β mutant mice.
1993	The hypothesis that TCR -β rearrangement provides a signal for TCR -α rearrangement is challenged by our findings of TCR -α rearrangements and full-size TCR- α transcripts in the TCR -β mutant mice.
1993	These findings are analogous to those made recently in the B-cell system: Ig- rearrangements can occur in the absence of an Ig- μ product in Ig-C μ mutant mice.
1993	Surface expression of TCR -β without TCR- α (α -less TCR) has been found in DN thymocytes of TCR -β transgenic mice, in DN and DP thymocytes of TCR -β transgenic scid mice, and in a DP thymocyte line.
1993	We have now extended these observations to DP thymocytes in TCR- β transgenic TCR- α mutant, TCR- β transgenic RAG-1 mutant and probably to TCR -α mutant mice.
1993	The α -less TCR could be an artefact of the mutant or TCR- β transgenic mutant mice.
1993	This hypothesis can be tested by crossing variously altered TCR- β transgenes into the RAG-1 or TCR- β mutant mice.
1993	The presence of CD4-positive dull TCR- β positive cells in the periphery of the TCR- α mutant and TCR- β transgenic TCR- α mutant mice, suggests that some thymocytes bearing TCR- β without TCR- α may develop into mature T cells and emigrate to the periphery in normal mice, although such T cells could be present only in the genetically manipulated mice.
1993	Recently another strain of TCR- α mutant mice has been reported but no T cells with α -less TCR were observed; the reason for this discrepancy is not clear, although these cells may have been overlooked.
1993	The αβ T-cell-deficient mice should be useful for analysing the in vivo functions of γ  T cells.
1993	FIG. 1 Targeting of TCR Cα and Southern analysis of TCR- α and TCR -β mutant mice.
1993	Probes are probe B-B, to genotype the mice, and 3' β probe, to screen the ES clones.
1993	TCR -α mice.
1993	TCR -β mice.
1993	Chimaeric mice were generated by standard protocols.
1993	As there is much variation in numbers of thymocytes between mice of different litters of the same age but much less between mice belonging to the same litter, the numbers of total thymocytes are shown in comparison to wild-type or heterozygous littermates in a logarithmic scale.
1993	TCR -α,TCR- α mutant mice (○):n=16,average 101%.
1993	TCR -β,TCR -β mutant mice (○):n=13,average 8.3%.
1993	RAG-1x β Tg: RAG-1 mutant mice (),n=10,average 1.4%; TCR -β transgenic mice (i),n=17,average 92%; TCR -β transgenic RAG-1 mutant mice (fl),n=15,average 102%.
1993	TCR βx :TCR -β mutant mice,n=16,average 6.6%; TCR βx  mutant mice (),n=10,average 3.4%.
1993	TCR αxβ:TCR -β mutant mice,n=8,average 5.2%; TCR- α mutant mice,n=8,average 110%; TCR αxβ mutant mice (▾),n=7,average 5.3%.
1993	Data are shown for the same mice as in a.
1993	TCR- α: n=16,average 112%; TCR- β: n=13,average 5.8%; RAG-1x β Tg: RAG-1 mutant mice,n=10,average 0%; TCR- β transgenic mice,n=17,average 88%, TCR -β transgenic RAG-1 mutant mice n=15,average 115%; TCR βx :TCR- β mutant mice,n=16,average 4.2%; TCR βx  mutant mice,n=10,average 0.04%.
1993	TCR αxβ:TCR- α mutant mice,n=8,average 118%; TCR- β mutant mice,n=8,average 2%; TCR αxβ mutant mice,n=7,average 2.7%.
1993	Mice were between three weeks and three months old.
1993	The background is (129/SvxC57BL/6) for TCR- α and RAG-1 mutant mice, and (129/OlaxBalb/c) for TCR- β and TCR -mutant mice.
1993	We have also obtained TCR- β and TCR -mutant mice in a (129/OlaxC57BL/6) background and have found no effect of genetic background on thymocyte numbers and percentage of DP cells (data not shown).
1993	TCR -β transgenic mice were of founder 101 (ref. 14).
1993	At least one and usually two or more wild-type or heterozygous littermates were analysed in parallel with the mutant mice.
1993	The average number of total thymocytes of these littermates was given the value of 100%, and the number of total thymocytes in individual mutant mice was converted into a percentage.
1993	In the case of TCR βx  mutant mice, TCr- mutant mice were included in the reference group of wild-type or heterozygous littermates, as they have normal numbers of total thymocytes and of DP thymocytes (our unpublished observations).
1993	FIG. 3 FACScan analysis of thymocytes of mutant mice.
1993	WT, Wild-type;α-/-,TCR -α mutant;β-/-,TCR- β mutant;αxβ-/-:TCR αxβ mutant;βx -/-,TCR βx  mutant mouse.
1993	The DN TCR-negative thymocytes in the TCR- β mutant mice are predominantly IL-2 receptor- and Sca-1 positive, and class I MHC high (data not shown).
1993	Thymocyte DNAs from 3–8 weeks old mice were cut with Sac I and Hin dIII and were hybridized simultaneously with a 5'J α 1 probe and a TCR C α probe.
1993	Three different RAG-1 mutant and seven different TCR- β mutant samples are analysed, prepared independently from pools of 3–10 mice each.
1993	The TCR- β heterozygous samples were derived from individual mice.
1993	Lane 1, C57BL/6: lane 2, TCR -α heterozygous; lane 3, TCR -α mutant; lane 4, TCR- β heterozygous; lane 5, TCR- β mutant mice.
1993	Transcripts hybridizing to the TCR C α probe in the TCR- α mutant mouse are longer than those in the other mice, presumably because of insertion of the 1.8-kb neo- selectable marker in the first exon of TCR C α.
1993	Thymocyte (T) DNAs from 3–8-week old mice cut with TCR- α rearrangements in thymocytes.
1993	Lane 1, RAG-1 mutant; lane 2, C57BL/6; lane 3, TCR -α heterozygous; lane 4, TCR- α mutant; lane 6, TCR- β heterozygous; lane 8, TCR -β mutant mice.
1993	For negative controls, brain (B) DNA was isolated from: lane 5, TCR- β heterozygous; lane 7, TCR- β mutant mice.
1993	Rearrangement is extensive in thymocytes of wild-type compared to RAG-1 mutant mice (negative control), as indicated by the virtual disappearance of the germ-line band and the presence of several bands corresponding to DJ rearrangements.
1993	TCR- β rearrangement in thymocytes of TCR- α mutant mice is as extensive as that in wild-type mice.
1993	TCR C β2 transcripts were present at normal levels in TCR -α mutant mice, but were absent in TCR- β mutant mice, as the TCR C β2 gene segment is included in the 15-kb deletion.
1993	To determine whether cadherins on LC could mediate intercellular adhesion through this type of homophilic interaction, we examined the ability of LC to bind to L cells (mouse fibroblasts devoid of cadherins) and L cells transfected with a vector encoding mouse E-cadherin (LEC cells)in vitro.
1993	Cells were stained for epitopes reactive with rat (6.72, ECCD-2 or PCD-1) and mouse (MKD6, anti-mouse I-A d ; Becton Dickinson) antibody as previously described and analysed with a FACScan analytical flow cytometer using Consort 30 software (BDIS).
1993	L cells were transfected with expression vectors carrying the mouse E-cadherin cDNA (pBATEM2) and the neomycin-resistance gene (pBATneoβ) as described.
1993	KC were prepared from neonatal BALB/c mice and cultured to confluence in low(0.05mM)-calcium-containing medium.
1993	The predictions of coiled-coil regions are very closely related between human, mouse and chicken dystrophin sequences (data not shown).
1993	FIG. 2 Amino-acid sequence comparison of the C termini of human dystrophin (3,075–3,685), mouse dystrophin (3,075–3,678; J. S. Chamberlain, J. Pearlman, D. Muzny and N. Farwell, unpublished data), chicken dystrophin (3,079–3,660) and DRP (utrophin; 2,833–3,427).
1993	But this natural partially effective response might be enhanced by immunization, and recently a bacterial CTL epitope identified in mice using a class I motif has been shown to induce a protective response after immunization.
1993	We have found, using this assay, that all optimized CTL epitopes for other class I molecules (HLA-A2, D b and K b ) have bound with high affinity, and the assay has recently been used to identify a HIV-gag CTL epitope in mice by screening of potential epitopes fitting the D b motif.
1993	This is a higher concentration range than for HLA-A2-binding epitopes and some HLA-B51-binding peptides, but comparable to an epitope for the mouse K b molecule (ref. 61 and unpublished data).
1993	We use the term MIP-1 β , originally applied to the mouse gene product, for its human counterpart used here.
1993	Several genes are expressed in the mouse AER, including Fgf-4 (fibroblast growth factor-4) and Bmp-2 (bone morphogenetic protein-2), both of which encode secreted signalling molecules.
1993	Using a culture system developed to explore the function of molecules produced by the AER, we have shown that FGF-4 protein stimulates proliferation of mesenchyme in the early mouse limb-bud.
1993	Mouse embryos with forelimbs at stage 3–4 (fully formed AER) and hindlimbs at stage 2–3 (apical epithelium thickening) were dissected into cold phosphate-buffered saline containing 10% fetal calf serum, and the heart removed.
1993	A gene for the mouse pink-eyed dilution locus and for human type II oculocutaneous albinism
1993	THE mouse pink-eyed dilution (p)locus on chromosome 7 is associated with defects of skin, eye and coat pigmentation.
1993	We show here that the human complementary DNA DN10 , linked to the p locus in mice, identifies the human homologue (P)of the mouse p gene, and appears to encode an integral membrane transporter protein.
1993	The expression pattern of this gene in various p mutant mice correlates with the pigmentation phenotype; moreover, an abnormally sized messenger RNA is detected in one mutant,p un , which reverts to the normal size in p un revertants.
1993	To extend previous recombinant-inbred strain analyses demonstrating linkage of D15S12h (formerly designated D7Nic1 ) to the mouse p locus, we performed an interspecific backcross analysis.
1993	The complete linkage of D15S12h and p thus suggested that D15S12h might be deleted in radiation-induced p -locus mutations, and Southern blot hybridization analysis demonstrated that all DNA fragments hybridizing to DN10 are deleted in the mouse mutations p r7FR6OLb ,p 6H ,p r46DFiOD ,p 116G and p r25DVT (Fig. 1 b).
1993	The DN10 cDNA detects an RNA expression pattern in mouse tissues consistent with the phenotypic effects of p mutations.
1993	The 3.4-kb mRNA, but not the 1.9-kb mRNA, derives from the D15S12h locus, because it is not present in skin of p 6H /p 6H mice (Fig. 2 a,lane 14), in which D15S12h is deleted (Fig. 1 b).
1993	The 3.4-kb mRNA is expressed highly in B16 melanoma, in albino (c/c)skin (which contains melanocytes but no pigment) and in skin from agouti (A/A;combination of yellow and black) and non-agouti (a/a ; black) mice (Fig. 2 a,lanes 3, 4, 9, and 10).
1993	Of particular interest is the expression in a t /a t mice, in which the 3.4-kb mRNA is expressed in the black dorsal skin but not in the yellow ventral skin (lanes 5 and 6), in contrast to expression in black ventral skin of a/a mice (lane 10).
1993	The 3.4-kb mRNA is expressed in skin of mice homozygous or hemizygous for the original p mutation, but at a very reduced level (Fig. 2 a,lanes 11 and 12), consistent with genetic data indicating that p is a low activity rather than a null mutation.
1993	In this regard, it is intriguing that pigmentation of melanocytes from p/p mice, and also from human patients with type II oculocutaneous albinism (OCA), is greatly increased by incubation in excess exogenous tyrosine.
1993	We have shown here that specific defects in this single gene (P)are also likely to result in the phenotype of type II oculocutaneous albinism in man and pink-eyed dilution (p)in mouse.
1993	This study exemplifies the combined use of human and mouse genetics to dissect human genetic diseases involving multiple genes and complex phenotypes.
1993	also reported identification of the mouse p gene.
1993	FIG. 1 Molecular analysis of the D15S12h locus in mice.
1993	DNA from mice of the indicated genotypes was digested with Bam HI and hybridized to DN10 (upper panel) or control probe 23.3 from the more distal chromosome-7 Emv-23 locus (lower panel).
1993	Mice carrying p 6H , and DNA from p 6 H /p 6H ,p un /p un , and inbred strains were purchased from the Jackson Laboratory.
1993	All other mice were bred at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
1993	Lethal mutations at the chromosome-7 pink-eyed dilution (p)locus were recovered opposite the original p mutation, and are maintained by outcross to +/+ mice, with progeny testing for p .
1993	Neonates or juvenile mice homozygous for p r7FR60Lb or p 6H , respectively, or compound heterozygotes involving p 6H or p r7FR60Lb and any of the prenatally lethal mutations p r46DFiOD ,p 116G , or p 25DVT , were identified in the progeny of a cross of appropriate heterozygotes by their pink eye and/or dilute fur colour.
1993	Wild-type homozygotes (p un+1Rn /p run+1Rn ), obtained from a cross of heterozygotes, were identified by progeny tests to p/p mice.
1993	DNA preparation and Southern blot hybridization were as described, except that mouse filters hybridized to DN10 received a final wash of either 1xSSCP at 65°C or 0.1xSSC at 39°C.
1993	FIG. 2 Northern blot analysis of mouse and human tissue RNA with the DN10 cDNA.
1993	Mouse blot using (upper panel)DN10 probe or (lower panel) chicken tubulin control probe.
1993	Poly(A) + RNA is from mouse skin (lanes 1–17) or from B16 melanoma (lane 18).
1993	Poly(A) + RNA was prepared by standard procedures and analysed by electrophoresis through 1% agarose/0.22M formaldehyde (mouse) or 1% agarose/0.92M formaldehyde (human melanocytes and HEL cells) and hybridization to radiolabelled probes.
1993	The 1.9-kb mRNA in the mouse (see text), detected by both DN10 and a 2.1-kb probe derived from the DN10 cDNA by PCR using primers RN14 (5' — GGATCAAGGAAAGCTCTGGCAGCTG-3') and RN19, is present in all tissues examined (data not shown).
1993	Probes from the co-ligated sequence 3' to the poly(A) recognition site (Fig. 3) in DN10 did not hybridize to mouse RNA.
1993	Here we follow the changes induced by retinoic acid to hindbrain segmentation and the branchial arches using transgenic mice which contain lacZ reporter genes that reveal the endogenous segment-restricted expression of the Hox-B1 (Hox-2.9), Hox-B2(Hox-2.8) and Krox-20 genes.
1993	In the process of defining the regulatory elements required for spatially restricted domains of Hox-B expression, we have produced lines of mice carrying Hox/lacZ transgenes that reproduce the endogenous pattern of Hox-B1 expression, including its ability to respond to retinoic acid (H.M. et al.,manuscript in preparation).
1993	These transgenic mice provide a convenient set of cellular markers for segmental expression in r3/4/5, the neural crest and motor nerves associated with this region.
1993	To investigate the effects of retinoic acid on Hox expression and segmental patterning in the hindbrain, we have exposed mouse embryos at several early stages to concentrations of retinoic acid (20mg per kg) that are known to induce craniofacial abnormalities.
1993	We have used a line of transgenic mice that accurately reveals the normal spatial and temporal patterns of Krox-20 expression in r3 and r5 (Fig. 3a-e ; ref. 23).
1993	In initial stages, as reported for both Xenopus and mouse embryos treated with retinoic acid, we find that although there is a clearly defined segment in the r3 position, the r3 stripe of Krox-20 expression is absent.
1993	Owing to the fact that there are underlying molecular mechanisms that modify these early retinoic acid-induced patterns, the net effect of retinoic acid application to preheadfold-stage mouse embryos is a duplication of the r4/5 Hox code in r2/3, which ultimately results in a homeotic transformation of rhombomeric phenotypes.
1993	Permanent lines of transgenic mice were produced by microinjection into fertilized eggs from F 1 backcrosses (CBAxC57) and transferred to pseudopregnant females.
1993	The genomic constructs were isolated from the mouse Hox-B1 and B2 genes into which the E. coli β -galactosidase reporter gene was inserted to create fusion proteins (H.M. and M.H.S., manuscripts in preparation).
1993	mouse embryo hindbrains; it appears that the trigeminal nerve has been transformed into a facial identity.
1993	To test the possibility that the axons normally display a glial mitogen on their surface (as has been suggested for axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS)), which is lost when the axons degenerate and are phagocytosed after transection, we studied the effect of transection on mitosis in postnatal optic nerves of C57B1/6 and C57B1/6-WLD mice.
1993	C57B1/6-WLD mice have a genetic defect that prolongs the survival of the distal stumps of transected axons in both the PNS and central nervous system (CNS).
1993	Despite the lack of axonal degeneration in the transected optic nerves of C57B1/6-WLD mice (which we confirmed by labelling with the RT97 monoclonal antineurofilament antibody), the decrease in mitotic cells after transection was not significantly different in these mice than in normal C57B1/6 mice (Fig. 1 c),making it unlikely that the loss of an axolemmal mitogen is the cause of the decrease in proliferation.
1993	They may also explain the observations that eye removal profoundly inhibits gliogenesis in the optic tectum of the frog and mouse.
1993	FIG. 1 The effect of nerve transection on cell proliferation in the developing optic nerve in rats (b)and in C57B1/6 and C57B1/6-WLD mice (c).
1993	P8 (a, b)rats or P12 (c)mice were anaesthetized with ether and the right optic nerve was cut just behind the eyeball.
1993	When the subcellular distribution of the Bcl-2 protein was analysed in the /bcl-2 or pt/ bcl-2 cells lines by immunofluorescence with a mouse monoclonal anti-Bcl-2 antibody and laser-scanning confocal microscopy, the protein seemed to be located mainly in the nuclear envelope and endoplasmic reticulum (ER)(Fig. 3a, b).
1993	Bcl-2 was labelled with a mouse IgG1 monoclonal anti-human Bcl-2 antibody (supernatant diluted 1:1), which was visualized in a, b and e with a fluorescein-coupled sheep anti-mouse immunoglobulin (Sh anti-MIg-Fl, Jackson Laboratories, diluted 1:100), and in c with biotin-coupled sheep anti-MIg (Sh anti-MIg BT) followed by fluorescein-coupled streptavidin (SA-Fl)(both from Amersham, diluted 1:100).
1993	The mitochondrial specificity of the human autoantibodies was verified by double-labelling pt/ bcl-2 cells with these autoantibodies (g)and a mouse monoclonal antibody against subunit IV of cytochrome c oxidase (h, ascites fluid diluted 1:100) visualized with Texas-red-coupled goat anti-mouse immunoglobulin (Jackson Laboratories; diluted 1:100).
1993	In this context, note that three members of the src family of tyrosine kinases,src, fyn and lck,have been inactivated by homologous recombination in mice, the lck mutation resulting in a thymocyte differentiation defect.
1993	RYRs may also generate calcium spiking in mouse eggs and pancreatic acinar cells.
1993	RYRs are also thought to contribute to wave propagation in pancreatic acinar cells and in mouse eggs, whereas IP 3 Rs seem to operate in Xenopus oocytes,Xenopus eggs and in hamster eggs.
1993	Heparin, which is a specific inhibitor of the IP 3 R, was found to stop the waves in both Xenopus and mouse oocytes.
1993	During spontaneous maturation, mouse oocytes display InsP 3 -dependent repetitive calcium spikes for at least two hours, often extending beyond the point of germinal vesicle breakdown.
1993	A genetic predisposition for neural tube defects in the curly tail (ct/ct)mouse can be overcome by culturing embryos in media containing inositol.
1993	The iv (situs inversus viscerum)mutation in mice interferes with this left-right decision-making process so that half of the mutants display situs inversus (the normal asymmetry is reversed).
1993	The staggerer mutant mouse has a genetic lesion that prevents the expression of IP 3 Rs specifically in the Purkinje neurons, which are poorly developed.
1993	Our results are consistent with previous studies in T-cell-deficient nude mice suggesting that class II + epithelial cells play a crucial role in T-cell development and with an earlier report showing that fetal day-12 thymic anlage stripped of their mesenchymal capsule fail to support lymphocyte development.
1993	Correction of the ion transport defect in cystic fibrosis transgenic mice by gene therapy
1993	Transgenic mice r7–9 with a disrupted cftr gene are appropriate for testing gene therapy protocols.
1993	Here we report the use of liposomes to deliver a CFTR expression plasmid to epithelia of the airway and to alveoli deep in the lung, leading to the correction of the ion conductance defects found in the trachea of transgenic (cf/cf)mice.
1993	Because CFTR messenger RNA is expressed at high levels in human and rodent intestinal crypts r14–16 , mouse intestinal sections were used as controls to demonstrate probe specificity.
1993	No hybridization to mouse intestine was detected with either of two human CFTR probes whereas, in consecutive sections, the mouse antisense cftr probe (but not the sense probe) detected abundant cftr mRNA in the crypts (data not shown).
1993	Additionally, neither the antisense nor the sense hisD vector control probes hybridized with mouse intestinal mRNA, as expected (data not shown).
1993	This demonstrates that the human CFTR and vector hisD probes do not cross-hybridize with mouse cftr mRNA.
1993	After transfection of pREP8-CFTR DNA into the airways of mice of 20–28 days old, sequences corresponding to human CFTR were detected by in situ hybridization (Fig.2).
1993	No hybridization was detected with the mouse cftr probe.
1993	Hybridization of these same probes to lung sections from untransfected animals served as a negative control against nonspecific hybridization; neither the human CFTR probe (g-i)nor the hisD probe (j-l)hybridized to any mRNAs in the lungs of untransfected mice.
1993	The data in Fig. 3 show hybridization to sections through different regions of the lungs of a mouse which had been transfected with pREP8-CFTR.
1993	No expression of endogenous mouse cftr mRNA was detected in any region of the lung (data not shown), consistent with previous studies showing low-level cftr expression in rodent lung, and with detailed studies of these transgenic animals (A.E.O.T. et al.,manuscript in preparation).
1993	This shows that the transfection protocol does not induce expression of endogenous mouse cftr mRNA.
1993	To determine whether delivery of CFTR cDNA to the airways could correct the ion transport defects apparent in CF, we used a recently developed mouse model.
1993	These transgenic (cf/cf)mice are homozygous for a null mutation in cftr and express little or no detectable endogenous cftr mRNA (A.E.O.T. et al.,manuscript in preparation).
1993	CFTR-dependent, cAMP-stimulated chloride conductances are greatly reduced in the airways and caeca of these mice, compared with normal animals, mimicking features of the human disorder.
1993	The mice frequently die shortly after birth as a consequence of intestinal blockages.
1993	As expected, CFTR-dependent, cAMP-stimulated chloride secretion was significantly reduced (P 0.01) in both the tracheas and caeca of the cf/cf mice compared with the normal (+/+) mice.
1993	There was no significant difference in the cAMP-stimulated chloride secretion between untreated and pREP8-transfected normal mice, indicating that transfection itself has no effect on ion transport.
1993	Most importantly, transfection of cf/cf mice with pREP8-CFTR restored the cAMP-stimulated chloride secretion in the trachea to a level comparable with that of normal (+/+) animals.
1993	In sharp contrast, transfection of the vf/cf mice with the vector pREP8 had no significant effect on the cAMP-stimulated chloride secretion in the trachea.
1993	The caecum of cf/cf mice transfected with pREP8-CFTR showed no appreciable cAMP-stimulated chloride secretion compared with the control (+/+) mice, confirming the genotypes of the mice and that the transfection procedure did not affect the gut.
1993	In contrast to the human, sodium absorption was reduced in the airways of cf/cf mice (Fig. 4B).
1993	Transfection of the cf/cf mice with pREP8-CFTR, but not with the vector pREP8, significantly increased sodium absorption (seven- to eightfold;P0.05),to essentially wild-type (+/+) levels (Fig. 4B).
1993	Ca r2+ -stimulated chloride secretory currents were not defective in cf/c f trachea, compared with trachea of normal (+/+) mice, but were significantly increased following transfection with CFTR (P0.05;Fig. 4B).
1993	Our results illustrate the invaluable role of transgenic null cf/cf mice in assessing the efficiency of various gene therapy approaches.
1993	FIG. 2 Detection of human CFTR by in situ hybridization in mouse airways following in vivo transfection. a-f,Data obtained for a mouse transfected with pREP8-CFTR;G-l,controls for an untransfected mouse.
1993	Mice were given enough avertin by intraperitoneal injection to induce very light anaesthesia.
1993	For transfection, 100μg plasmid DNA was mixed with 25μg Lipofectin in a total volume of 50μl and administered to mice by tracheal instillation in two loads by insertion of a metal applicator, adapted from a 25-gauge blunted syringe needle, through the mouth and into the trachea to the point where the main bronchi branch off.
1993	The mouse cftr probes were derived by reverse transcriptase PCR from mouse testis mRNA and corresponded to nucleotides 305–691 of exons 3–5.
1993	FIG. 3 Detection of human CFTR in different regions of the mouse airway following transfection.
1993	Sections from different regions of the airway of a mouse transfected with pREP8-CFTR were hybridized with human antisense CFTR probes corresponding to either exons 1–6 (a-f, i, j)or exon 13 (g and h).
1993	FIG. 4 Correction of the ion channel defects in the trachea of transgenic (cf/cf)mice.
1993	a, cf/cf mouse transfected with pREP8-CFTR;b,+/+ mouse transfected with pREP8;c, cf/cf mouse transfected with the vector pREP8.
1993	In 8 out of 10 cf/cf caeca, frusemide led to a slight increase in short-circuit current (SSC)(c,upper record); this is probably due to a blockage of K + secretion and is typical of the caecum of cf/cf mice.
1993	Mice were subjected to three different treatment protocols:a, cf/cf mice transfected with pREP8-CFTR;b,+/+ mice transfected with the vector pREP8;c, cf/cf mice transfected with the vector pREP8.
1993	The genotypes of the transfected mice, and of the plasmid DNA with which they were transfected, was unknown at the time the measurements were made.
1993	Note: the ion transport characteristics of 4/6 pREP8-CFTR transfected cf/cf mice were altered by transfection; the reason for the failure of the other two mice is almost certainly failure in delivery.
1993	Nevertheless, the forskolin-sensitive SCC (Cl -cAMP) in the whole group including the two failures (9.22.6μAcm r-2 ,n=6 ) was significantly greater (P0.05,Mann and Witney test) than the value for cf/cf mice (1.90.5cm r-2 ,n=4).
1993	Untreated, wild-type (+/+) mice (n=5;weight  s.e.m.
1993	Heterozygous (cf/+) mice transfected with pREP8-CFTR (n=2;mean weight, 7.0g) had the following transport parameters (mean  s.e.m.): for the trachea:: for the caecum .
1993	Note that the forskolin-sensitive currents (Cl -cAMP) in the trachea were smaller than those reported previously for wild-type mice.
1993	This is undoubtedly a consequence of edge damage caused by using only 2.27mm 2 areas of trachea in the present study, necessitated by the small size of the cf/cf mice, compared with 4mm 2 areas of trachea in previous studies.
1993	Transgenic mice were genotyped by PCR and/or Southern blot analysis as described.
1993	Introduction of plasmid DNA into the mouse airways was as described in the legend to Fig. 2.
0000	The tax on foreign sugar was well over Mice that on English West India sugar in 1661 and the margin was widened later.
1993	With monitor, keyboard, mouse and 4Mb memory, the XLR14C, 14″ colour 1,024 by 768 pixel model is $3,100; the XLR15C 15″ variant of that is $3,400; and the 17″ XLR17C version is $4,300.
1993	NCR Corp's Applied Digital Data Systems (ADDS) division is to show its first AlphaWindow terminal at Unix Expo to catch all those character-based applications unlikely to be converted to X: the terminal, based on AT&T's 705MT multi-session terminal, supports the full AlphaWindow spec including mouse support and Motif-like windowing.
1993	SayIt, developed by Agog Inc, reportedly builds voice-activated user-defined macros that correspond to any keyboard or mouse input.
1993	It includes three master/slave SBus slots, up to 128Mb internal memory, an Optal-Mechanical mouse and Type 5 Sparc keyboard.
1993	Server versions, without monitor, GX graphics, mouse or keyboard are £7,160, £7,960 and £11,960 respectively.
1993	SoftPC emulates 286-based PC hardware in real or protected mode — and the 80287 maths co-processor — within the software, and has specially written display and mouse drivers which translate Windows display and mouse instructions into the native X Window environment — boosting the speed of Windows applications to that comparable with 80386 hardware (or 486 on an R4000), according to Insignia.
1993	A headset; video monitor and keyboard for programming; and three-dimensional mouse are also provided.
1993	Scorers will use mouse clicks to mark off, on-screen, details like where each ball bowled landed, whether a run was scored, whether a wicket fell, and which players caught which batsmen out.
1993	The new Powerstation 23T is a workstation model with a Gt1x graphics adaptor with appropriate cable, 400Mb disk, keyboard, mouse and a new Powerdisplay 16S standard at $8,500; without the display it's a 23W at $6,700.
1993	They come with Powerdisplay 16, Gt4e colour graphics adapter, keyboard, mouse, 32Mb memory and 400Mb disk; prices go from $12,950 to $25,070.
1993	Keyboard, mouse and screen all run native.
1993	The system developed aims to provide a three-dimensional means of manipulating a virtual reality scene, with a pen-type stylus used in place of a mouse.
1993	Microvitec is currently readying a colour AlphaWindows terminal for an August release, priced at £750, which supports standard personal computer keyboards and Microsoft Corp mice.
1993	Prices include 16Mb memory, colour monitor, keyboard, mouse, 16-bit audio subsystem and bundled tools currently on the Iris Indigo — Showcase, Explorer, media mosaic tools and the Irix implementation of Unix.
1993	Senior product manager Tony Lacy-Thompson explained that although graphical interfaces offer benefits in terms of consistency, easy-to-remember icons and mice for user-driven interaction, these benefits are of little use to those that only use one application, those only interested in data entry and those whose productivity will not be improved.
1993	However, as GX is not a full object-oriented graphical language (something that Informix is still developing) it will not give applications pull-down menus or 100% mouse control in every field.
1993	The MCG3500, compliant with the Display Industry Association's (DIA) version 1.2 AlphaWindows standard, comes separately as a ‘pizza box’ at £475 or integrated with monitor, keyboard and mouse for £850.
1993	The computer has a 25MHz TI 486SLC processor, mono screen, full-size keyboard and trackball mouse.
1993	Bravo Toshiba for finally introducing a sensible notebook mouse.
1993	For example, it solves one of the remaining headaches of using a mouse on a notebook — that is , if you need to stop temporarily, perhaps to switch trains, then carry on walking.
1993	Problem: you can put the notebook into Suspend mode, but it won't fit in the carrying case unless you take the mouse off, the notebook won't recognise the mouse when you plug it back in.
1993	Toshiba has solved this problem by introducing a mouse and software that's clever enough to handle this and other demands as well.
1993	For instance, if you load Windows, but forget to take the mouse out of the bag, you can just clip the Toshiba mouse on and, as if by magic, a cursor appears.
1993	HOW CAN IT BE A MOUSE IF IT AIN'T GOT A TAIL?
1993	To run Money Smith you'll need Windows 3 or 3.1, a mouse and 1Mb of free hard disk space.
1993	For £25 you get the full version of the game, featuring full mouse support; intelligent, communicating, non-playing characters; more perplexing puzzles; brutish monsters and a vital Save and Restore feature.
1993	One idea Claris has taken from its Apple Mac software is the tear-off sheets, which cut down on mouse movement
1993	Data movement within the worksheet is now entirely under mouse control, using a process called drag ‘n’ drop.
1993	If I press the Control key whilst picking up this range of cells using the mouse, this tells Excel to copy the cells instead of simply moving them
1993	Single cells can't be moved with the mouse, and ranges which are in the process of being copied or moved look identical, so you're more likely to lose track of what you're doing.
1993	Design is almost entirely mouse controlled, and is more fun than its name suggests.
1993	In Quattro Pro for Windows, the right mouse button is in the hands of the Object Inspector, and the implementation is considerably slicker than that used for Excel's short-cut menus.
1993	You can write ‘Jan’ in the row label on the left, then drag it downwards with the mouse.
1993	By simply picking up and moving the categories' names with the mouse I can reverse their positions and totally rebuild the worksheet…
1993	To change their properties you click on the right mouse button.
1993	But the mouse support could be improved, and at £595, it's way too expensive.
1993	I only get the first two options — everything else disappears off the bottom of the screen and reappears at the top, corrupted and unaffected by the mouse, even though CGA appears to be supported.
1993	DoubleClickSpeed=452:Longest time allowed between two mouse clicks for them still to be counted as a double click.
1993	You can move icons into this group simply by dragging them in with the mouse.
1993	Move back to the Program Manager, highlight the Legato icon with a single mouse click, and press the Delete key.
1992	And if we can put this into simplistic erm er  er nay almost Mickey Mouse terms that the enlightenment was based upon rationalism.
1993	He claims that ‘animal rights’ people say that mice have equal rights to humans.
1993	We are sorry that Mr Blake is ill, and sorry, too, that he has been misled into thinking that experiments on mice can tell anyone anything about a human being.
1993	Big Bad Mouse: Institute, High Street, Kelvedon, 8 pm, Until Saturday.
1993	For example, in mice modified liver cells have been implanted, which have not only corrected the phenylalanine defect but have remained healthy for the normal life span of the animal.
1993	The therapeutic potential of these genetic advances has been indicated by recent gene transfer experiments by Woo in an inbred strain of mouse with phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency (S L C Woo, paper delivered at annual meeting of European Metabolic Group (Milupa) Copenhagen, May 1991).
1993	Using virus vectors, Woo successfully inserted normal mouse genes for phenylalanine hydroxylase into cultured liver cells from the mutant mouse.
1993	The injected cells remained healthy within the liver parenchyma and corrected the phenylalanine defect for the normal life span of the mouse (even though the cells made up only a small percentage of liver cells).
1992	Aggie had mice, Nellie recalled, but the woman could not bear the thought of getting a good mouser.
1992	I put some down in my place an' I ain't seen any signs of mice since,’ he said encouragingly.
1992	‘Give it a month or two an' it'll catch all yer mice.
1992	Harold was becoming more and more irritable with his wife's bouncing in and out of bed and he declared that if the mice saw the kitten they might well decide to make a meal of it.
1992	Aggie finally found the cat a good home and from that day onwards she had kept up a running battle with her mice, reverting to paper plugs soaked in vinegar, which seemed to be reasonably effective.
1992	What was more, there had been a growing number of mice in her house of late and she put it down to the age of the animal.
1992	He picked up a packet of mints and said tot he cashier: ‘That gormless Lancastrian out there will pay for these — he has got the brains of a chocolate mouse.’
1992	He interrupted me with, ‘Oh, we know you — you're the chocolate mouse from Lancashire!’
1992	The new starts are slugs (yuk!), mice, insects, aardvarks (Nobby , coming soon from Thalamus!) and now, just out of hibernation, Turbo The Tortoise!
1992	But enough of the self-indulgent whingeing I have for you this month the rest of The Jetsons solution,Murray Mouse: Supercop and Biff maps, among with whatever you kind readers send in.
1992	Murray Mouse SUPERCOP
1992	This time it's Murray Mouse: Supercop that comes up for a lump of cheese and a quick spin on the squeaky exercise wheel that keeps the whole house awake at night.
1992	Go left, get the sewer key, go right three times, use the sewer key, go right three times, use the sewer key on the manhole (shouldn't that be person hole?), go down, get plank, go right, hit torch, get saw, go down, get mouse, get woodworm, go up, left, left, down, use plank to mend floor, up, get pick axe, down, right, down, use woodworm on wooden door, right, get cheese, get mouse, hit torch, up, up, left, left, down, cut through plank with saw, down, right, get mouse, left, use pick axe on wall, go left, hit torch.
1992	Go left, left, give cheese to giant mouse, left, up, right, right, up, hit torch, right, get spider, down (when rock has fallen), get frog's legs, hit torch, get mouse, left, up, hit torch, down, get newt's eye, right, left, left, move the rock by walking slowly toward it, stand on the rock and jump left to hit the torch, get mouse, walk left on the rocks created by the torch, a door will appear, left up, hit torch, right, put the newt's eyes, the frog's legs and the spider into the cauldron, up, up, down, right, get telescope.
1992	Go left, up, use telescope, down, right, right, right, right, right, down, right, right, right, right, take shovel, up, left, get password, right, down, left, left, left, up, right, up, up, walk right off the right-hand star, get keycard, left, up, right, right, right, up, right, right, down, right, get mouse, left, left, left, left, up, right, up, up, walk right off the right-hand star, get keycard, left, up, right, right, right, up, right, right, down, right, get mouse, left, left, use shovel on boulders, down, right, use keycard on door, get mouse, walk into right wall, right, get stone, left, left, left, walk into first door.
1992	Use password on second door, left, get mouse, get leaf, right, down, right, right, down, right, right, right, right, up, left, give leaf to worm, right, down, left, left, left, up, right, up, up, up, right, throw stone at flat, stand on rocket, jump up/left, fall left off ground, jump up/left off star, get mouse, down, right, right, right, up, right, right, down, right, down, left, left, left, down, right, right, down, right, up, get mouse to win the game and get a cheese sarnie.
1974	The appropriate symbol for housework (and for housework alone) is not the interminable conveyor belt but a compulsive circle like a pet mouse in its cage spinning round on its exercise wheel, unable to get off…
1992	That Mouse is a bore
1992	As capital of the avant-garde art scene in Europe, Cologne can be compared to the mouse that roared.
1992	They range from early works such as the 1928–29 watercolour ‘Blue Ashtray and a Packet of Parisiennes’ to the exquisite, macabre 1950 ink drawing ‘A Dead Mouse’to two late pencil drawings made in 1985: ‘Face (with Neck) Rome’, and ‘Face (Roma)’.
1992	Subtitled ‘The Road to Maus’ it follows on from the exhibition held by MoMA last spring of Spiegelman's drawings for his two published volumes on the Holocaust, told in comic strip form with mice, cats and pigs as the protagonists (see The Art Newspaper No. 16, March 1992, p.15).
1993	This species barrier has recently been investigated by using transgeneic mice expressing the gene for hamster PrP.
1993	Prions ‘adapted’ to either hamster or mouse were inoculated into hamsters, normal mice, or transgeneic mice carrying the hamster PrP transgene.
1993	Some strains of mice with hamster PrP transgenes, when inoculated with hamster prions show incubation periods as short as 75 days rather than the 500 or more days in non-transgeneic controls.
1986	Mice and black-beetles and cook-maids had played Old Harry with some cantatas and a vast great passion according to St Mark, in High Dutch; but lower down all was well, and I brought away several pieces, 'cello for you, fiddle for me, and some for both together.
1985	His appearance compelled the kind of attention a mouse gives a snake: in his late thirties, he looked shrivelled and ageless, anxious and ill.
1993	Yet she shouldered the blame for what the media gleefully called: ‘Malice at the Palace’ describing the Princess as ‘the mouse that roared’.
1991	THE MOUSE IN THE CORNER
1992	Oh, darling, don't cry, he was very old, that mouse, I'm sure he didn't suffer at all, I'll get you another one I promise…
1992	Even when Disney World opened in Florida, the main attraction was the Magic Kingdom, and Mickey Mouse reigned supreme.
1992	‘They sang ‘Happy birthday to you’,’(she sings it)‘and I had a cake with Mickey Mouse.
1992	Here, they are quiet as mice throughout Act 1 and are not heard to applaud at the end.
1987	‘Fascism’, he said, ‘is not a creed for the smug mice who choose to emerge from under Bloomsbury tea-cosies to have a nibble at it.’
1987	Those who thought him in error became the co-traitors of his personal mythology, the Bloomsbury ‘mice’, who would be ‘cleaned up’ by the truncheons and boots of the new heroes, once the Fascist revolution had been accomplished in England.
1990	Since no two mice are identical, let alone two human beings, replacing X would make a difference.
1990	For instance, all mice are different; yet all mice are mice.
1990	For some purposes it matters that mice are not cats, while for others what counts is that both are animals.
1990	Perspective telescopes: with my nasty coffee, I read a report on race riots in my native city, where family and friends remain, as if it were recounting the behaviour of black and white mice in cramped and stressful lab conditions.
1991	Briefly: the addition of a red jerboa or desert jumping mouse to the white-disc-in-red-square vehicle sign of the Mobile Division Egypt dates back to 1939/40.
1993	Mice adjustment or other re-negotiated terms are the norm, and even if lawyers are consulted, matters will typically be settled rather than litigated.
1980	Thus infant mice have been subjected to electric-shock treatment and their emotionality assessed later on  in comparison with non-shocked animals.
1980	It seems improbable that anything comparable to the traumata commonly employed in psychological experiments with mice, rats and dogs would be encountered by human children.
1993	The development of the mouse constitutes a valuable extension to the keyboard, but this is a supplement, not a replacement.
1993	In this role, the pen can be used to select items, pull down menus, move objects around the screen; in effect, to handle any task that hitherto required the use of a mouse.
1993	Furthermore, the pen is more compact and requires no mouse mat.
1989	‘Mickey Mouse’ club
1991	‘Mice, your ladyship,’ Rosie put in.
1991	‘We do get a lot of mice up here, you see.’
1979	Two of Elizabeth's Attorneys, John Price and Thomas Atkins, were certainly guilty of abusing justice: Price forged those parts of a document that had been eaten by mice and Atkins took bribes from men charged before the Council.
1990	The clues consisted of four pictures: Snoopy with cream on his face, Charlie Brown with red paint on his hands, Donald Duck with muddy feet, and Mickey Mouse with a necklace sticking out of his pocket.
1992	It may be surprising, but when a cat brings a live mouse to her kittens — perhaps for them to first play with and then kill, or perhaps so that she can kill it while they watch — this is not considered by some experts to be a form of teaching.
1992	This is similar to that of the mother cat giving her kittens a mouse, but it goes a step further, because Ricci usually abandons her own hammer to Nina.
1992	Males take more rabbits, and females more fish and small mammals, but this is not to say that a female can't kill a rabbit or that a male won't kill mice.
1992	The ½in dowels are inserted  into this framing to create a grill to keep the mice out of what makes an inviting nesting box.
1973	Then began scuttering backwards and forwards like a small, frightened mouse, picking up the things they had dropped, clothes in the bedroom, toothpaste tube in the bathroom.
1973	Like a mouse answering a lion, Carrie thought.
1973	Are you a mouse, girl?’
1973	Poor as a church mouse by her standards, and weak as a kitten!’
1988	But that is only the size of a mouse.
1988	The horned toad of South America has a gape so big that it can with ease engulf nestling birds and young mice.
1987	It is a period in the history of cooking when the addition of truffles would make a poached mouse or a fricassee of donkey's ears acceptable to those rich and great ones who flock to eat the creations of this famous chef.
1982	The nine stages of gestation of the unit will take a variable length of time depending on whether it turns out to be an "elephant" or a "mouse" .
1982	These are commands selected from menus displayed on the screen although the keyboard is used, the main input device is currently the ‘mouse’ which when moved on a table produces corresponding movements of a pointer arrow on the screen.
1982	A button on the mouse ‘sends’ the messages.
1986	It had been a nursery, and had lambs, ducks, Mickey Mouses, humorous dinosaurs, coy robots, witches on broomsticks and the other necessities of the middle-class child's bedroom.
1987	Mouse husbandry
1987	The mouse is the most commonly used laboratory mammal.
1987	Many strains of mice have been bred in laboratories for over 50 years and there are now several hundred inbred, congenic, recombinant inbred, outbred and mutant strains.
1987	2.1 Source of mice and general health measures
1987	If a suitable source of commercially bred animals is available and occasional large batches of age-matched animals are required, the purchase of mice may be the most efficient and cost-effective approach.
1987	Mice are kept under a variety of conditions.
1987	Axenic mice are also isolator bred and are free of all organisms (i.e. germ free).
1987	Mouse cages are available in various shapes, sizes and designs.
1987	The former provides accommodation for breeding pairs or trios or up to five adult mice while the latter is used for up to 25 stock mice depending on their size.
1987	There is little to suggest which the mice prefer, and cages are chosen to suit the management system and the scientists' preference.
1987	Special cages have been developed for wild mice to reduce the need for handling during cleaning but it is possible to keep them in standard mouse cages.
1987	Nutrition is a very important factor in the breeding and maintenance of mice in good health and fertility.
1987	Various commercial mouse diets are available.
1987	Some diets may emerge so hard that it is impossible for them to be eaten by weanling mice.
1987	There is a real risk of mice, especially young animals, drowning or dying from the effects of a soaking if a bottle or nozzle of an automatic system leaks.
1987	Water for mice in gnotobiotic isolators must be sterile.
1987	Mouse rooms should therefore have no windows.
1987	HANDLING MICE
1987	(i) Lift the mouse from the cage with the base of the tail held between thumb and forefinger, and transfer to a grid cage top (Figure 1a) or a surface that it can   grasp (e.g. the sleeve of a laboratory coat).
1987	The mouse's natural response is to move away from the handler and while pulling gently backwards on the tail the mouse can be pinned to the grid between the thumb and bent forefinger of the free hand.
1987	and i.p. injections and palpation can be carried out with the mouse held as in Figure 1.
1987	When working with mice in an isolator they may be picked up by the base of their tail using a pair of large forceps with rubber sleeves on their tips.
1987	Wild mice are more difficult to handle because they jump.
1987	There are two common systems used to identify mice, ear clipping with or without toe clipping.
1987	Newborn mice may be identified by toe clipping.
1987	Subcutaneous injections can be in the scruff of the neck close to the handler's thumb while holding the mouse firmly on a surface that it can grasp.
1987	Mice may be easily killed by cervical dislocation.
1987	Care must be taken to ensure that the animals are dead prior to disposal and it should be noted that mice 1 — 8 days old take longer to die than adults.
1987	Mice will breed from 6 to 8 weeks of age and continue for about 200 days depending on the strain.
1987	The gestation period of the mouse is 20 days and parturition is often associated with a post-partum oestrus.
1987	Mice are commonly bred in pairs, trios (one male with two females) or harems (one male with more than two females).
1987	Mice are weaned at approximately 3 weeks of age and should be removed from the breeding cage before the birth of the subsequent litter.
1987	To prevent fighting, male mice are caged together from weaning.
1987	An inbred mouse strain must be maintained by full sib mating (brother x sister) while an outbred strain must be maintained in such a way that inbreeding is minimized.
1987	Wild mice may be kept and bred in standard mouse cages, but one must remember their jumping ability.
1987	The oestrus cycle of the mouse is normally 4 days, and females are receptive to mating only at oestrus.
1987	When a group of female mice is placed with a male their oestrus cycles become synchronized and the majority of animals will mate on the third night.
1987	When mice mate the ejaculate of the male coagulates in the vagina of the female producing a copulation plug.
1987	By checking female mice for the presence of a plug it is possible to determine whether the animal has mated.
1987	Mice normally mate during the middle of the dark period of the diurnal cycle.
1987	If animals are brought in from another establishment whose diurnal light/dark cycle is different or unknown a few days should be allowed for the mice to acclimatize.
1987	Male mice are easiest to vasectomize at about 6 weeks of age before they become fat.
1987	Successful induction of superovulation depends on several variables including age, weight and strain of mouse, and the time of injection of the gonadotropins.
1987	The time of administration of the gonadotropins relative to each other and the light cycle of the mouse room affects both the number of eggs ovulated and their developmental uniformity.
1987	Although mice are probably the most frequently anaesthetized animals in laboratory work, it is still difficult to achieve true surgical anaesthesia without some mortality.
1987	The dose required is normally in the range 0.7-I .0 mg for a 25 g mouse.
1987	The dose required should be about 3.0 mg for a 25g mouse.
1987	Tribromoethanol has been reported to be irritant to the viscera of mice and this can cause intestinal problems and death.
1987	A 25 g mouse requires an injection i.p. of 0.1–0.2 ml of this mixture.
1987	Ether is irritant to the mouse respiratory tract and can cause excessive mucous secretion.
1987	Not only is it hepatotoxic but trace concentrations have been shown to interfere seriously with the breeding performance of male mice.
1987	It is essential that anaesthetized mice are kept warm on a heated pad under a light or preferably in an incubator until they recover consciousness.
1987	Caesarian re-derivation of a mouse breeding colony is the most effective method to restore its health status.
1987	The abdomen of the pregnant mouse should be shaved.
1987	(i) Kill the mouse by cervical dislocation, immediately dip it in the disinfectant solution in the beaker, blot to remove excess liquid and transfer to a sterile operating surface.
1987	Mice may be fostered at birth or at any time prior to weaning.
1987	If there is no alternative to using a foster mother whose natural litter is the same colour as the mice to be fostered great care must be taken to mark the fostered animals by toe clipping or all the natural young must be removed.
1987	Mice can be easily transported by road, rail or air.
1987	This is especially important if the mice have come from a source that is not usually used and if the health status of the colony of origin is unknown.
1987	The mice must then be kept in quarantine for 6 months.
1987	When mice are imported from abroad it must either be possible to carry out experiments in the quarantine facility or a breeding colony should be imported.
1987	It is permissible to remove mice born in quarantine 3 weeks after weaning with the permission of the Ministry of Agriculture.
1987	Mice must be obtained from breeding or supplying establishments designated under the Act and the experimental animal facilities must also be designated.
1987	Isolation, culture and manipulation of pre-implantation mouse embryos
1987	There are two broad areas of developmental research that require in vitro culture of pre-implantation embryos, namely, the study of the embryo as an autonomously differentiating system (1,2), and the use of the early embryo as a vehicle for gene insertion in the production of transgenic mice (see Chapter 11).
1987	(i) Mouse development has tended to become the paradigm of pre-implantation mammalian embryogenesis.
1987	This has arisen because, with the exception of the rabbit and possibly the human (see Chapter 14), the mouse is the only species that can be cultured in vitro over the entire pre-implantation period.
1987	However, it should be noted that conclusions derived from mouse embryos are not necessarily applicable to mammals in general.
1987	Superovulation is a useful device for increasing the numbers of eggs and embryos obtained from young (3–4 weeks) mice (for discussion of the factors involved see ref. 6).
1987	(i) Kill the female mice by cervical dislocation, dissect out the oviducts and place then, in warn,(37-C) saline or M2 + BSA (Section 5).
1987	(Frequently the first polar body degenerates in many strains of mice.)
1987	(iii) Use watchmaker's forceps to probe the oviduct and locate the end (this has the appearance of a ribbed sleeve in many strains of mice).
1987	For the majority of mouse strains, eggs or embryos placed in culture at any stage before the mid 2-cell stage will arrest development in the G2 phase of the second cell cycle-a phenomenon referred to as the 2-cell block (discussed in ref 17).
1987	There are however, a few strains of mice (mostly inbred strains or hybrids between inbred strains) whose eggs and embryos do not block at the two-cell stage (Table 2).
1987	In a comparison between blocking and non-blocking strains of mice it was shown that the potential of embryos to arrest at the 2-cell stage is determined solely by the   genotype of the egg and occurs irrespective of the paternal or embryonic contribution (18).
1987	Furthermore if a blocking strain of mouse is used (if the mice are outbred this is most likely to be the case) then care must be taken to ensure that 2-cell stage embryos are recovered from the oviducts late enough in the second cell cycle to ensure their normal development to blastocysts in vitro.
1987	This is likely to be approximately 36–40 h post-hCG but it is best determined by experiment on the particular strain of mouse available.
1987	One method of constructing chimaeric (or "allophenic" ) mice is to aggregate two or more genotypically distinct morulae together and re-implant the composite embryo into the uterus of a pseudopregnant foster mother (23, and see Chapter 6, Section 2.2).
1987	Mouse ICM is much more susceptible to lethal damage by X-irradiation or anti-metabolites than TE and treatment of embryos (starting from the 2- to 8- cell stage) with a variety of these reagents has been used to generate trophectodermal vesicles devoid of any apparent ICM (discussed in ref. 28).
1987	In addition, DNA content of stained nuclei can be assessed on an integrating microdensitometer (e.g. Vickers M85) by comparison with cell nuclei of different ploidy derived from air-dried smears of mouse liver (3,11).
1987	A fixed and stained sample of mouse liver analysed simultaneously in all experiments will provide reference values for 2C and 4C amounts of DNA.
1987	A variety of fluorescent, peroxidase-labelled, or radiolabelled, antibodies, lectins and other ligands have been applied to the mouse embryo in studies of the organization, composition and function of cells at different stages (for comprehensive reviews see 36–39).
1987	Early mouse embryos and their component cells are most easily manipulated during fixation and immunocytological staining if stuck down to coverslips.
1987	Few markers available currently fulfil all these criteria (reviewed in 50) but some have been successfully applied to the mouse (see Chapter 6).
1987	Two cell lineage markers have been applied recently to the pre-implantation mouse embryo.
1987	Isolation, culture and manipulation of post-implantation mouse embryos
1987	The mouse blastocyst starts to implant in the uterus on the 5th day of gestation.
1987	A variety of isolated fractions or tissues from post-implantation mouse embryos will continue to grow and differentiate if placed in a well vascularized site in an immunologically compatible adult host (2).
1987	Xenogeneic sites such as the chick chorioallantoic membrane have been used but in general development is somewhat less predictable than when syngeneic mice serve as hosts.
1987	Of particular interest in the mouse is the observation that up to the 8th day of gestation the isolated embryonic region will give rise to transplantable tumours when placed beneath the testis or kidney capsule (16,17).
1987	Unfortunately, the mouse embryo has proved less tolerant to explantation in vitro, during gastrulation and organogenesis, than has the rat (18,19).
1987	Regimes which support apparently normal growth and development of rat embryos for several days (20) are much less successful when mouse embryos are used.
1987	For example, unlike the rat, the development of pre-primitive streak stage mouse embryos is extremely unpredictable in vitro and although development is much improved if embryos are explanted after the primitive streak has formed it seems to be a general finding that normal growth and development  cannot be sustained much beyond 24 or 36 h in culture.
1987	Nonetheless, during a phase of such rapid change, even 24 h is sufficient to observe extensive differentiation and morphogenesis and so despite its present inadequacies whole mouse embryo culture remains an invaluable tool for the study of post-implantation development.
1987	No systematic analysis has been conducted with mouse embryos but, as a rough guide, 2.5 ml of medium will support the growth and development for 24 h of four 8th day embryos, three 9th day embryos or two 10th day embryos.
1987	Early post-implantation mouse embryos will develop in static culture if explanted at the primitive streak stages but normal development is sustained for only 24 h or less (22).
1987	Older   embryos and more extended cultures benefit from a rotating system and, judging from the experience with rat embryos, the same is probably true for primitive streak stage embryos, although no direct comparison between static and rotating culture systems has been undertaken at this stage in the mouse.
1987	Perhaps the most dramatic example of initiating chimaerism in vivo is the recent report of viable mice showing unequivocal melanocyte chimaerism produced by injecting neural crest cells, from a pigmented donor, into albino embryos in utero (13).
1987	Implantation of the mouse embryo presents a serious obstacle to the analysis of tissue diversification during gastrulation and early organogenesis.
1987	Meiotic analysis in germ cells of man and the mouse
1987	The aim of this chapter will be to describe in detail the currently available techniques for air-drying and spreading of oocytes and spermatocytes in man and the mouse.
1987	While gonadal material can easily be obtained from mice, testicular samples for the study of human meiosis are not so easy to come by.
1987	At Mt in man, the X and Y pair in an end-to-end fashion, by the two short arms (p), and in the mouse, by the two long arms (q).
1987	The air-drying method in regular use for the preparation of meiotic divisions in man and the mouse is that of Evans et al.
1987	The technique as described originally is applied to the mouse testis below (Section 2.1), and modified in our laboratory for use with human testicular material (Section 2.2).
1987	2.1 Air-drying method for use in the mouse
1987	An MII cell from the male mouse is shown in Figure Id.
1987	In the mouse, a C-band is located adjacent to the centromere in all but the Y chromosome (see also Chapter  5, Section 5.2.
1987	Figure 2a shows a C-banded MI from the mouse translocation T (14; 15) 6 Ca.
1987	A C-banded MII mouse spermatocyte is shown in Figure 2b.
1987	(iii) Place the slides in 5% barium hydroxide at 50-C for 30 sec (human), 4% barium hydroxide at 37-C for 30 see (mouse).
1987	Fluorescence staining has proved of little value in meiotic analysis of the mouse, but in man quinacrine staining originally revealed that it was the non-fluorescent short arm of the Y chromosome which paired with the X at metaphase I of meiosis (8).
1987	A striking correspondence between chromomeres and mitotic G-bands has been observed, and complete pachytene karyotypes in man (12) and the mouse (13) have been produced.
1987	An alternative method for preparing pachytene karyotypes using a 1 h hypotonic KC1 treatment at 37 — 38 C, has been described for man by Hungerford (10) and for the mouse by Fang and Jagiello (13).
1987	Recently, in situ nick translation experiments combined with autoradiography have been performed on human (18) and mouse (19,20) air-dried meiotic cells.
1987	Early cytogenetic studies of meiotic prophase in females employing the use of air-drying techniques in the mouse, include those of Rohrborn and Hansmann (22), and in man, those of Luciani and Stahl (23) and Kurilo (24).
1987	Meiotic prophase in the mouse commences on day 13 of gestation with maximum numbers of pachytenes being seen over days 16 — 18.
1987	In recent years, significant developments in the preparation of fetal oocytes in man and the mouse by "microspreading" , have taken place, and because of the superior quality of the preparations and the vast improvement in detail which can be discerned in such spreads, all discussion regarding chromosome preparation at meiotic prophase in oogenesis will be deferred until later (Section 4.3).
1987	An early published method for the culture of mouse and human oocytes is that of Edwards (28).
1987	For the preparation of in vitro matured mouse eggs the method of Speed (29) has been used successfully in our own laboratory.
1987	(31), modified for use in the mouse by Sugawara and Mikamo (32).
1987	(v) Treat mouse eggs with 0.02% pronase (Sigma) for 15–20 sec to soften the zona pellucida.
1987	In the mouse, a suitable method has been described by Rohrborn and Hansmann (22).
1987	A C-banded MII egg from the mouse is shown in Figure 7.
1987	(i) For the mouse.
1987	Spread diplotene spermatocytes prepared by this method from the mouse (Figure 8a) and human (Figure 8b) are shown.
1987	The application of this spreading method in our laboratory to the spermatocytes of a translocation heterozygote in man (44), to several inversion heterozygotes in the mouse (45), and in the study of XY pairing in the human male (46), can be found in the literature in addition to many other published accounts where spreading techniques have been employed in male meiotic prophase analysis.
1987	The material (mouse or human ovaries) must be obtained as fresh as possible.
1987	Maximum numbers of pachytenes occur on about day 18 post-coitum in mouse, although this will vary with the strain.
1987	(i) Place the ovary in Dulbecco's PBS and, in the case of human, cut into small pieces about 2 mm3 using a scalpel (for mouse one whole ovary is used to prepare one slide).
1987	(ii) Place one piece of ovarian tissue (or whole ovary in the case of mouse) onto a clean slide in 2–3 drops of 0.2 M (4.5%) sucrose (made up in distilled water).
1987	Spread pachytene oocytes prepared by this method from the mouse (Figure 9a) and human (Figure 9b) are shown.
1987	The mouse pachytene spread is photographed at LM level: the human spread is taken in the EM.
1987	Detail of normal oocytes, and oocytes showing a variety of anomalies, are given in papers for mouse by Speed (47) and Speed and Chandley (48) and for the human by Speed (25).
1987	In the study of human trisomy 21 oocytes (49) and mouse XO oocytes (50), the technique has proved invaluable in revealing the synaptic configurations present in these abnormal situations.
1987	Most of the experience described has been gained from the mouse but many of the techniques and applications are equally suitable for other mammals, including man.
1987	A thorough knowledge of the cleavage rate and expected fluctuations in the mouse strain being used provides a useful guide to the timing of exposure to the mitotic arrestant.
1987	The vast majority of chromosomally unbalanced mouse fetuses die between day 6 and IS (8) and mitotic activity often decreases several hours or even days prior to the event.
1987	5.1 Mouse chromosomes after conventional staining
1987	The normal mouse has 40 chromosomes which are all acrocentric with centromeres close to the terminus and almost invisible short arms.
1987	In mid-metaphase, mouse chromosomes range in length from about 2 to 5 μm.
1987	The problem presented by the uniform morphology of conventionally stained mouse chromosomes in the recognition of chimaeric or mosaic conditions can be overcome by using marker chromosomes to label cells.
1987	C-banding methods demonstrate constitutive heterochromatin which, in the mouse, is normally composed of centromere-associated satellite DNA.
1987	In common with other mammalian species, the individual chromosomes of the mouse can be recognized by using a variety of different banding methods but G-banding has found the greatest favour and also provides the basis for the standard idiogram which is illustrated in Figure 4.
1987	The standard idiogram lists 312 distinct regions within the mouse karyotype but rarely, if ever, have they all been observed in a single metaphase plate.
1987	Some additional information has emerged but, unfortunately, mouse chromosomes have not responded well to the high resolution techniques developed for human chromosomes and it is only recently that a higher resolution idiogram has been published (14).
1987	The only consistent variation found within the G-banded karyotypes from different mouse strains has been in the amount of A1 band material (regions which are synonymous with C-bands) observed in certain chromosomes.
1987	Suitable markers include X-autosomal reciprocal translocations such as T (X; 4) 37H or the X-autosomal insertion Is (1n7; X) 1Ct, both of which present a marker chromosome longer than the normal longest mouse chromosome (see ref-17 for a list of such markers).
1987	The stained sex chromatin body in mouse nuclei is not as distinctive as in the nuclei of some other mammalian species because the chromocentres (regions in which centromeric heterochromatin collect) are localized and stain up almost as intensely.
1987	Nevertheless, it can be used for sexing and the mouse amnion is a favourable source of nuclei (19).
1987	If the requirement for in situ hybridization to chromosomes is to probe for the completely unknown localization of unique sequences in the mouse genome, existing techniques are limited to tissue samples which give a plentiful supply of both slides and mitotic cells.
1987	A further problem arises from the featureless morphology of mouse chromosomes and the need to introduce some form of banding technique to identify the individual chromosomes and the fine regions within these.
1987	The use of this method in the mouse is currently in its infancy and since the procedure requires cells to pass through a round of replication in the presence of BrdU, it can only be used in cultured cells, which, because of the numbers required, are limited to third passage embryonic fibroblasts from pooled day 12 — IS embryos.
1987	In summary, replication banding of embryonic fibroblast cells provides the best means of locating unique sequences in an unmarked mouse genome and a protocol for this method is described in Table 8 and the results illustrated in Figure 7a.
1987	It is convenient to prepare scoring sheets which include a G-banded copy of each mouse chromosome (Figure 4) and to enter grain positions directly on to them.
1989	Monkeys, pigs, foxes, mice, cats, birds, snakes and dogs were favourable, indicating posterity and prosperity.
1989	I did no work that I can remember — I know I was considered hopeless by my teachers and I was quite ready to believe I  was hopeless — I can quite well remember keeping mice at the back of the classroom and I can remember the smell.
1989	Whereas the "rats" had broken the strike, its long-term effect was to allow the "mice" to creep into the trade.
1984	It is no job for a shy mouse, and some of us have been sad to come across schools which have preferred to appoint inexperienced and nervous introverts rather than business-like mature librarians with a clear idea of their role.
1972	These were old carrots, some half-eaten already by mice or fly.
1972	At first they moved cautiously, but before long they grew confident at finding no trace of any creature larger than a mouse.
1972	They could hear the wood splintering under his teeth — a sound like a mouse in a shed wainscot at midnight.
1992	Is the mouse dead?
1992	If you got mice i , you can also make things easier by actually moving that arrow around until you get to the individual word that you actually want to find and actually then you stop your cursor there.
1992	So, if you've got a mouse you could actually help speed up a lot of this editing but, I said, I've not written in the mouse commands into this schedule because we didn't actually have mice on all work stations when this was written.
1992	So, as I go round I'll show you erm, how to use the mouse  er a as as and when it becomes er appropriate.
1990	Antechinus is a tiny Australian marsupial the size and shape of a mouse.
1990	But if the measure of fertility is the number of young that are produced in a season, then the record is held by Microtus, a tiny meadow mouse from North America.
1990	In South Africa, little rock mice collect nectar from — and pollinate — some species of Protea which obligingly bear their flowers close to the ground and facing downwards.
1990	A grasshopper, slowly chewing a leaf-blade is suddenly struck by the clubbed end of a muscular tongue projected like a lance from the mouth of a chameleon; a field mouse in the twilight of an English wood, searching for seeds, is transfixed by the curved talons of a pouncing owl and may be dead even before its captor's beak begins to rip it apart; a lizard in the Arizona desert, stabbed by the hypodermic fangs of a rattlesnake, is paralysed as venom is injected into its veins and it can offer no resistance as the snake takes it in its jaws and swallows it head-first.
1990	Some ants hunt in swarms many thousands strong, scouring the forest floor for centipedes and spiders, termites and scorpions, mice and lizards, indeed any small inhabitants of the rain forest floor.
1990	For mammals with such receptive and informative noses as hyaenas, bush babies and mice, darkness is little impediment in finding their way around.
1990	The African elephant shrew, a highly-strung insect-eating mammal the size of a mouse with a nose drawn out into a mobile trunk, depends for its safety on knowing its trails better than any hunter that might chase it.
1990	Kangaroo rats and spring-hares use their holes, as the tortoise does, to shelter from the heat; hyaenas and wolves as nurseries; badgers and armadillos as dormitories in which to slumber during the day after foraging at night; and mice and rabbits as sanctuaries where they are beyond the reach of most of their enemies.
1990	The common European wasp favours a cavity — a tunnel dug by a field mouse or some other small mammal, a hole in a tree, or a warm place in the loft of a house — and there she fixes a stalk of paper to a point in the roof.
1994	Tiny tell-tale marks showed where voles and mice had scampered through grass tunnels roofed with snow to reach the safety of their homes.
1994	A small mammal — vole? mouse?— scurried across our path.
1994	Clare described the kestrel's hover as it hangs ‘in the sky on narrow pointed quivering wings’, and its plummet to earth: ‘The small hawk like a shot drops from the sky/ close to my feet for mice and creeping things.’
1968	Constanza and Simon used to call her Miss Mouse because she was so meek and mild and everything Simon did was perfect.
1968	The name was their joke because she didn't look mousey at all, she was a great flashy beauty—there was some Latin blood there too, just what Simon liked—a mouse in tiger skin.
1968	Miss Mouse's father controlled a string of newspapers; he is very rich.
1968	Miss Mouse decided that she must have Simon.
1968	Between Mary (Miss Mouse) and Northumberland there will be no place for her.
1992	A slide of children with gas masks provoked Wayne (RH) to comment on Mickey Mouse designs placed on gas masks to encourage children to wear them, and Stephen (S) to say they didn't bother to wear them very often.
1992	The children depicted in Serrailier's poem, having watched a mouse frightened by a pheasant, chalk…in capitals on a rusty can:
1992	THERE'S A MOUSE IN THOSE NETTLES.
1993	You don't have to play these cat and mouse games with your clockwork soldiers.
1986	On the costume side the addition of ‘Mickey Mouse’ feet strove to give them both an alien and a slightly comic appearance, again emphasising the points Whitaker wanted stressed from the script about these quizzical little xenophobics.
1991	It is reported that the Seiko wordlist, for example, can always be easily identified because it accepts M-O-W-S-E as a correct spelling of the word ‘mouse’!
1991	Thus, a raspberry is a type of berry, a bullfinch a type of finch, a dormouse a type of mouse, a padlock a type of lock, etc.
1991	It's a dormouse unilaterally entails It's a mouse
1991	There is, for example, no possible syntagmatic modification of animal which would render it cognitively equivalent to dog (or elephant ,mouse ,crocodile ,…).
1989	To match the proportion of the South-West would require an extra 49,500 jobs Mouse of Commons Library Statistical Section Note, 18 October 1988).
1992	Each ten-acre field in turn was grazed bare —'till; you could whip a mouse across it' — and the cattle moved round from one field to another so that they were always eating fresh, springing grass.
1988	The most unpleasant discoveries were made during the process of clearance: cupboards full of urine-encrusted chamber pots, of ancient patent medicine, of dead mice, of moth-infested garments, of fossilized scraps of nineteenth-century food: Hogarthian, Dickensian relics of an oppressed and squalid past.
1990	Among the best remembered are Anchors Aweigh (1945), in which Gene Kelly as a sailor on leave in LA, teaches Jerry Mouse to dance; Kelly again in the ‘Sinbad The Sailor’ segment of Invitation to the Dance , with music from Rimsky-Korsakov's symphonic suite,Scheherazade ; and Mary Poppins (1964), in which Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke encounter a variety of Disneyfied animals.
1990	Curious mice never squeal.
1992	As the toad grows, it can be fed mouse pinks (newly born mice, available frozen from herptile shops), earthworms and slugs.
1993	Another approach to vaccine development is the elicitation of Th1-like responses, as illustrated by the report that immunity in mice immunized with attenuated parasites is entirely dependent on the Th1 cytokine, interferon-γ (ref. 2; A. Wilson, University of York).
1993	During the egg-laying stage of infection, Th responses in mice are highly Th2-like, suggesting the pathology, which is Th dependent, is mediated by Th2 cytokines.
1993	This concept was discussed in light of observations that IL-2 (D. Boros, Wayne State; A. Sher, NIAID), the α form of tumour necrosis factor (ref. 3; Boros; J. McKerrow, UCSF) and IL-4 (Boros; Sher) are all involved in granuloma formation; further, in mice, high TNF-α levels seem to be predictive of severe disease (D. Colley, Centers for Disease Control).
1993	This is a critical area — experimentally, the suppression of Th1 and CD8+ cell activity makes mice with schistosomiasis more susceptible to experimental vaccinia infection (in these mice, virus persists specifically in granuloma fibroblasts; Sher).
1993	The extent to which Th1 responses are down-regulated in infected patients, who clearly are mounting antiparasite Th2-like responses, remains unclear, although some studies have indicated less of a suppression than that seen in infected mice (Dunne; C. King, Case Western Reserve).
1993	The belief that pathology in schistosomiasis is wholly egg-centred requires reassessment in light of the report of ‘capillarization’ of hepatic sinusoids in infected mice before the onset of egg production (J.-A.
1993	Lacto- N -fucopentaose also activates B cells from schistosome-infected mice (in an antigen receptor-independent manner), to make IL-10, a cytokine implicated in the development of the Th2-like response evident in infected animals (Harn).
1989	Stuffing for toy mice
1989	Stuff toy mice made out of rabbit fur, for kittens and for elderly cats in need of exercise.
1988	At that time the Camargue had not been invaded by the tourists, who instigated the establishment of mournful-looking groups of tethered, bony horses in American-style corrals, souvenir stalls with gardien hats, and gaucho hats and Texan sombreros, little cotton peaked caps, with Mickey Mouse or pink flamingoes on them.
1988	Frederica was irresistibly reminded of the two dolls leaning lifelessly on the doll's house dresser, staring, in The Tale of Tao Bad Mice.
1989	Magnetite occurs in many other creatures including turtles, tuna, mice and birds.
1989	The barn owl can swoop down on a mouse in total darkness, guided only by a faint rustle in the undergrowth.
1989	Young mice communicate in high-pitched squeaks, safe from human eavesdroppers, and spiders listen for the sound of insect wings.
1989	This system is so sophisticated that the owl can locate and memorise the position of a rustle without even moving its head and, as it swoops, it can align its claws along a mouse's body guided only by sound.
1989	The barn owl can not only hear and locate noises, but can also detect whether they are made by mice or other prey.
1989	So, elephants can hear far lower sounds than us, while mice cut off below 1000 hertz but can hear sounds as high as 100 000 hertz.
1989	The familiar squeaks which we associate with mice and rats are the lowest sounds these rodents make.
1989	When touched by an adult mouse, a young mouse emits a special ultrasonic call that seems to have a soothing effect on the adult.
1989	Isolated young mice squeak repeatedly at frequencies of 45 000 hertz to 88 000 hertz, until their mother comes and returns them to the nest.
1989	Mice also produce ultrasound during mating, when the pelvic thrusts of the male are accompanied by rhythmic squeaks.
1989	Rats and mice leave trails along well-travelled routes by smearing secretions from glands on their body along the ground.
1989	Among mice, the merest whiff of a male can have a devastating effect.
1986	The narrator then goes on to tell of this divorcee, Brenda Goring, who arrives in their village and who latches on to his quite mouse of a wife, whom he dearly loves, fills her ears with tales of the fast life she has always led and still leads in visits to London and, worse, is always to be found in his home when he gets back exhausted from the office.
0000	After all, the mouse has a cat, so what is the fox's predator?
1993	it it it it it's it's it's also got a erm er It's got no mouse  for the computer.
1993	It doesn't need a mouse and  it will run on a C G A.
1993	It looked like a large animal to Alice, but it was only a mouse.
1993	‘Everything's very strange down here, so perhaps a mouse can talk.’
1993	So she began: ‘Oh Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool?
1993	I am very tired of swimming, oh Mouse!’
1993	(Alice did not know if this was the right way to speak to a mouse.
1993	The mouse looked at her with its little eyes, but it said nothing.
1993	‘Perhaps it's a French mouse.’
1993	The mouse jumped half out of the water and looked at her angrily.
1993	‘Like cats?’ cried the mouse in a high, angry voice.
1993	‘Does any mouse like cats?’
1993	But the mouse was now swimming quickly away, and soon Alice was alone again.
1993	Like some antediluvian mouse Chesarynth roamed the corridors of files.
1993	They ask me, Is that your writing? and it is of course it is those are Despot control codes from when the computer's mouse was misbehaving and that's the way I always spell when I do a shopping list.
1992	She feared that decisions were being made behind her back, and that she was not being told the truth by that apologetic mouse of a doctor.
1993	The driver opened the door letting out a blast of Bob Marley, ‘No woman, no cry…’, and a fume of the mothballs scattered to prevent mice from chewing the wiring.
1993	Other examples include childlike (charity advertising), hyperdependent (the BBC television play Keeping Tom Nice ) and flawed (Lenny, from Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men ).
1993	The villain of the piece may begin a hero and even contain some hope (Lenny, from Of Mice and Men ) then a flaw becomes apparent, and they then disembowel or impair themselves (or have it done to them) as an act of retribution.
1993	Unheeding, the Welshman went on, ‘How are their wives expected to feed a family on a lump of cheese not big enough for a mouse, and a handful of peas that wouldn't satisfy a guinea-pig?
1993	He kissed the pliant softness of each of her swinging beauties in turn, and watched the cute nipples rise prettily to stand erect like two dinky pink sugar mice.
1993	He smiled at her like a cat smiling at a mouse.
1993	Jack, who has been breeding ferrets for more than forty years, showed us soft focus shots of brown ferrets, white ferrets, ferrets eating mice  and ferrets building their nests in old Athletico programmes.
1967	There was a long table of scrubbed pine with a tablecloth (splashed with russet chrysanthemums, the sort of tablecloth you see through the windows of other people's houses as you walk by at teatime) folded back to cover crockery set out ready for breakfast, perhaps to keep mice from dirtying the cups.
1967	There were thirty pairs of animals in the body of the ark, ranging from a lion and a lioness almost as big as Noah himself, down to a pair of white mice no bigger than Melanie's little finger-nail.
1972	She's a mouse.
1972	‘There's a mouse behind the wainscot,’ Edward said.
1992	‘Quiet as a mouse.’
1992	A light touch and not even a mouse could have scuttled through that ballroom without setting off the alarm all over the house — and the city.
1993	I told him the captain was out walking, and the man waited, like a cat waiting for a mouse.
1993	The pirates jumped on it like cats upon a mouse.
1979	Encouraging results have been obtained by expression of the IL-2 gene in a mouse colonic cancer model and of the IL-4 gene in a mouse renal cancer model.
1979	Indeed, transgenic mice with an extra copy of the RB1 gene are consistently smaller than normal.
1979	For example, formation of secondary tumours by injected melanoma cells in mice was inhibited by simultaneous injection of a short synthetic peptide containing the -arg-gly-asp-tripeptide that blocks integrin α5β1 binding to fibronectin, strongly suggesting a role for matrix adhesion in the formation of metastases.
1979	These peptides are much more potent inhibitors of β1 and β3 integrins than synthetic peptides and inhibit tumour metastasis in mice, as well as platelet aggregation.
1993	The Ambra mouse is odd; you need a hand like a claw to use it.
1993	Having two sorts of mouse is a pain.
1993	The Microsoft one plugs into a serial port you may want to use for a modem, while you have to hunt for a mouse to fit into the IBM PS/2 socket.
1993	Early reports suggest it's pretty good, with neat transition effects and mouse click short cuts to make it easy to use.
1993	Clicking on an object with the right mouse button brings up a menu listing all the things you can do to it — a feature first seen in Borland's Quattro Pro for Windows.
1993	You'll also need DOS 2 or above and the program is compatible with Microsoft and Logitech mice.
1993	Diamond has a reputation for low prices and this machine sells for just £899, including the monitor, but excluding DOS, Windows and a mouse.
1993	So the latest version of Lotus 1-2-3 includes such delights as fully customizable Lotus Smart Icons, mouse support and better printer drivers.
1993	More DOS programs are becoming graphically orientated, as speed limitations are eroded with faster hardware and mouse support becomes commonplace.
1993	Like SuperCalc these aren't pictorial in content, but at least the shadowed button look makes them appear as if you should click then with a mouse — which is more than can be said for either of the other two packages.
1993	And just because it looks easy to use a mouse and icons to develop new database applications, it doesn't mean that you can forget all about the coding side.
1993	There's support for a mouse, of course, with lots of point-and-shoot selection — including a speedy keyboard-free way to move around between fields — and click-and-drag to resize column borders or whole windows.
1993	Mouse support is a bit limited, too.
1993	Sure, your design will appear in a movable and resizable window, but you can't use the mouse to ‘paint’ a WYSIWYG layout or click-and-drag to move fields around.
1993	The brown rectangle in front of‘Whitehorn’ is the mouse cursor
1993	The mouse doesn't feature in this version (coming real soon now, though), there are no drop-down menus or dialogue boxes, and in general the character-based interface feels a bit dated.
1993	It has a kind of windowing system, with dialogue boxes and drop-down menus, and it now offers mouse support.
1993	Version 7 has mouse support, pull-down menus and dialogue boxes — within five minutes you can get to grips with most of the commands you need.
1993	Thankfully there is full mouse control.
1993	But for those who want more familiar mouse control and drop-down menus they're there too.
1993	I took a look at Dell's 33MHz 433/L machine, which comes with MS-DOS 5 and Windows 3.1 pre-installed and a mouse.
1993	Attached to the side of the Convertible is a little electronic pen which behaves rather like a Microsoft-compatible mouse.
1993	It lets existing Windows programs recognize the pen as if it were a mouse.
1993	Navigating with a pen is surprisingly natural and certainly easier than using a mouse on a train, but the handwriting recognition is still weak.
1993	Apart from programs designed for vertical markets or specially written for a particular job, most of the products you'll find are ‘pen aware’ which means they can recognize a pen as both a mouse and an input device, but don't have any other facilities to take advantage of the pen.
1993	But beware — DOS software is rapidly acquiring Windows-style trimmings, like mouse support, pull-down menus and graphical interfaces, which take up more space.
1993	In general, serial ports are where you plug in a mouse or a modem, and you attach your printer to a parallel port.
1993	INPUT/OUTPUT BOARDS:Boards designed to let you input information into the computer and get information out again — usually via the keyboard or mouse — onto the screen.
1993	Parallel ports are most commonly used for connecting a printer to your machine, serial ports are used for a mouse or a modem.
1993	Although Knowledge Adventure is a DOS program, it has plenty of aural and graphical pizzazz, and full mouse support.
1993	The only irritation is that Comet Data hasn't installed the drivers for the mouse or the graphics card, you have to do this yourself.
1993	Here you'll find the normal serial and parallel ports, video port, PS/2 mouse socket.
1993	This needs a mouse and you'll find all the necessary drivers are pre-installed.
1993	You get two serial ports, a parallel port, and PS/2 keyboard and mouse connectors. £1,639 is a lot for an Amstrad, but it's an Amstrad with a difference — it's built by Intel.
1993	This mini tower machine comes ready to run Windows and also has two mouse drivers installed — one from Microsoft for Windows 3.1 and the other for the Silicon Valley mouse.
1993	The packages I've looked at should, in different degrees, allow you to draw or paint as naturally as possible with a mouse.
1993	Painting is popular for creating simple images because the mouse is used like a brush to colour areas and to create the effect of texture, like an impressionist painting, for instance.
1993	In you review of the 486SX machines you state that ‘once again it was set up to use the MS DOS device drivers (HIMEM, MOUSE and SMARTDrive), although the ones that come with Windows 3.1 are much better’.
1993	I note from the supplied listings that you're loading a mouse driver twice — once in CONFIG.SYS and again in AUTOEXEC.BAT.
1993	This alternatively spliced type III repeat designated AD1 is located between the previously identified repeats 10 and 11 and has sequence homology with human, chicken and mouse tenascin type III repeats.
1993	PCR and Southern analysis of genomic DNA indicate that AD1 is coded by a single exon present in both human and mouse genome.
1993	The highest levels of protein sequence homology were with human tenascin type III repeat 11, mouse tenascin type III repeat 9 and chicken tenascin type III repeat 7 with 36%, 35% and 37% identity respectively.
1993	In addition the presence of a 276 bp PCR product was also observed in mouse genomic DNA when primed with the AD1 internal primers.
1993	Sequence analysis of the subcloned mouse 276 bp PCR product revealed it to be a homologue of the human AD1 sequence.
1993	The results demonstrate the presence of AD1 in human and mouse genomic DNA.
1993	Tenascin mRNA from human, mouse, and chicken are highly homologous, leading us to speculate that human AD1 related repeats may be present in mouse and chicken tenascin genes.
1993	This has been subsequently confirmed for mouse.
1993	In addition we have observed the presence of a highly conserved AD1 repeat homologue in the mouse genomic DNA.
1993	The human and mouse RB genes have been thoroughly characterized (1, 2).
1993	The human gene is approximately 200 kb, contains 27 exons, and produces a message of 4.7 kb in humans and 4.6 kb in mice.
1993	The rat R961 RB cDNA sequence is homologous to the 3' region of mouse and human Rb genes.
1993	Homology between rat and mouse (2) is more than 92%, and between rat and human is about 81% (1).
1993	Only 4 amino acids did not match with the human sequence, whereas 9 amino acids did not match with mouse peptide.
1993	Thus the carboxy-terminus domain has a definite role in pRB-mediated repression of E2 transcription which might also explain why extensive homology has been maintained among the peptide sequences of rat and two other (human and mouse) known RB proteins.
1993	Examination of genomic DNA from various species shows that the P3A exon sequence is present only in hominoids, old world and new world primates species and is absent in the muscle cDNA or genomic DNA from rat, mouse or dog, indicating that P3A exon is evolutionary conserved for at least 50 million years.
1993	Genomic DNA from human, rat, mouse, cow, and dog were obtained from Clonetech Lab (Palo Alto, CA).
1993	The sequence of the P4 exon used as reverse primer is highly conserved in human, mouse, and bovine cDNA (5, 6, 12).
1993	The 385 bp product, corresponding to the P3A exon, P3A intron and 5' end of the P4 exon was found in genomic DNA of the human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line, TE671, and muscle of humans and primates but was absent in cow, dog, rat and mouse.
1993	However, if the sequence of P3A diverges between human and cow, dog, rat or mouse, a primer based on the human sequence would not amplify an analogous exon, although it seems unlikely, given the overall homology between bovine, murine and human sequences of this gene.
1993	Nevertheless, to address this question, cDNA from mouse, rat, and dog muscle was amplified by using a 5' oligonucleotide primer complimentary to the N-terminal end of α AChR (coding sequence 61–83) and a 3' oligonucleotide primer of sequence 734–756.
1993	Similar results were obtained when cDNAs from mouse, rat, and dog muscle were amplified for the complete α subunit by using a different set of primers (data not shown).
1993	(13), who similarly were unable to detect a P3A + α subunit transcript in muscle of chicken, calf or mouse, mouse thymus or torpedo electric organ.
1993	Moreover, transplantation of thymic tissue from MG patients into SCID-mice lead to signs of MG in the mice (24).
1993	In mouse and chicken muscle, expression of the α, β, γ, and δ subunits is believed to be regulated by a muscle specific promoter (15–19).
1993	Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) with extracts of mouse brain [13]glia and neurons [14]have revealed a complex pattern of at least four nervous tissue-specific Oct (N-Oct) DNA-binding proteins which were termed by us N-Oct 2, N-Oct 3, N-Oct 4 and N-Oct 5A/5B.
1993	While this manuscript was in preparation, the genomic clone of the mouse brain-2 gene was isolated and sequenced [15].
1993	Alignment of the mouse brain-2 DNA sequence with the human N-Oct 3 DNA sequence revealed a homology of 94.4% in the coding region (data not shown).
1993	The same size and the same tissue specificity was reported recently for the mouse brain-2 mRNA [15].
1993	The amino acid sequence of the human N-Oct 3 (brain-2) and the murine brain-2 protein is identical except for two additional amino acid residues in the mouse protein.
1993	At present, the genomic structure of the human N-Oct 3 gene is not known but given the short evolutionary distance between mouse and human, we assume that the human N-Oct 3 gene does not have introns as well .
1993	This protein has also been cloned independently in other laboratories from human, mouse and rat and named NF-IL6 (23); LAP (24); AGP/EBP (25); CRP2 (26); and C/EBPβ (27).
1993	In the light of the recent finding that both IL-6DBP/NF-IL6 and C/EBP δ/NF-IL6; β mRNA are induced by IL-6 in vivo in mouse liver (23, 28), we tried to determine their involvement in the induction of acute phase gene expression in Hep3B cells.
1993	C/EBPα mRNA levels are down-regulated in mice by IL-6 (43) and since it has been demonstrated that this protein interacts with the albumin promoter, a negative AP gene,(44) this could explain the IL-6 dependent down-regulation of the albumin protein levels.
1993	In contrast to C/EBPα, the level of IL-6DBP/NF-IL6 mRNA in mice is increased by IL-6 (20, 43).
1993	More recently also C/EBP δ/NF-IL6; β has been shown to be transcriptionally regulated by LPS (and presumably by IL-6) in mice (28).
1993	A corresponding gene, air-1, was localized on chromosome 16 in the mouse (14).
1993	TXII, a RJ2.2.5 derivative which recovered ability to express MHC class II genes upon transfection with mouse genomic DNA (22), was grown in the same conditions and the growth rate was measured for comparison: the doubling time of this transfectant was similar to that exhibited by Raji (24 hrs).
1993	Studies concerning the characterization of the regulatory defect carried by the MHC class II negative B-cell lymphoma RJ2.2.5 mutant were previously presented and the segregation pattern of somatic cell hybrids obtained by fusion of the mutant cells with mouse spleen B-cells was reported (13,14).
1993	(A ) Comparison of the pou[c] POU domain sequence to representative POU domain sequences from rat (r), humans (h),Drosophila (d),Xenopus (x),C.elegans (n) and mouse (m; see text for references).
1993	Database search using the FASTA program (2), showed 90.7% nucleic acid and 100% amino acid homology with the mouse KE3 sequence as shown below.
1993	Striking homology between mouse and human transcription enhancer factor-1 (TEF-1)
1993	TEF-1 binds specifically to the GT-IIc element (5'-GTGGAATGT-3') found in enhancer sequences of SV40, human papillomavirus (HPV) -16, and some polyomavirus mutants that replicate in undifferentiated mouse embryonal carcinoma cells (1–3).
1993	TEF-1 is present in undifferentiated mouse embryonal carcinoma cells (3), and enhancers that rely on TEF-1 binding sites are active as early as the 2-cell stage in mouse development (4, 5).
1993	Earlier studies suggested that mouse and human TEF-1 genes may have a sequence diversion (1).
1993	Therefore, isolation of the mouse homolog of TEF-1 should facilitate the analysis of its tissue specific functions and its possible role in development.
1993	An 0.5 kb DNA fragment encoding aa 44 to 216, corresponding to the N'-terminus of the human clone, was used as a probe to isolate three clones from a mouse cDNA library of PCC4 embryonal carcinoma cells (Lambda ZAPII, oligo(dT) and random primed cDNA library from Stratagene).
1993	The mouse DNA sequence encoding TEF-1 was 92% homologous with the corresponding human sequence.
1993	The mouse and human sequences differed at two restriction sites corresponding to amino acids 43 (HindIII) and 221 (EcoRI).
1993	These differences distinguish the mouse from the human TEF-1 sequence.
1993	DNA samples isolated from five different humans and from five different mouse strains were analyzed by Southern blot hybridization (data not shown).
1993	All five human DNAs gave the human restriction pattern, and all five mouse DNAs gave the mouse restriction pattern.
1993	Sequences homologous to the mouse TEF-1 coding sequence are found in most vertebrates, including the distantly related chicken (Figure 2).
1993	Northern blot analysis using the mTEF1 DNA probe revealed an RNA transcript of about 10 kb in a wide range of mouse tissues.
1993	Comparison of deduced amino acid sequences of the mouse and human TEF-1 proteins.
1993	Blotting-hybridization of a 0.5 kb mTEF-1 32 P-DNA probe and a human β-actin probe (Clonetech) against cellular polyA+ RNA from a variety of mouse tissues (Multiple Tissue Northern Blot, Clontech).
1993	These differences were not due to a polymorphism between BALB/c mouse (3) and (C57B1/6xBALB/c) F1 mouse (our sequence), as confirmed by RT-PCR done with synthetic primers encompassing codons 660 and 829.
1993	In similar transient experiments using a growth hormone gene driven by the mouse metallothionin-1 promoter (pXGH5; Nichols Institute Diagnostics) the amount of growth hormone secreted was 30ng/ml for DEAE-Dextran mediated gene transfer and >300ng/ml for poly-L-ornithine.
1993	The plasmids used were either pH1°CAT, a construct in which the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene was driven by the mouse histone H1° promoter containing H1° 5' flanking sequences and 5' untranslated region from -2800 to +252, or pC110.
1993	The plasmid pUmU6 0.34 containing the mouse U6-gene from bp -150 to +190, was described before (5).
0000	The subjects of some of the Magic Lantern entertainments can be ascertained from the account book and include: A  thousand miles up the Congo; On Service; How we hunted a mouse; Mary Queen of Scots; and two comics, Nephews and Stolen Sausage; Through the Trossachs; Burns Cottars Saturday Night and How Tammy Tended the Baby; British Empire; Life of General Gordon; and Sermon in Candles.
1985	Some animals, for example the mice studied by Greenwood et al.
1987	Wendy is eighteen and lives with her twenty-month-old daughter Lucy, and two white mice in the ground floor flat of a high-rise council block on a bleak council estate.
1982	When Mrs Newman  saw the mouse, though it was dead, she jumped on a kitchen chair and squealed.
1989	Hear the twitch of a mouse
1985	Here I was a veritable mouse.
1971	The king's son followed Mitsi, who was a small mouse with very long whiskers.
1971	While they sat and chatted, a mouse ran up to them.
1971	"Oh, I daresay I can make myself useful in some way," "replied the mouse.
1971	So when the young lord came back he was persuaded to take the mouse, too, into his service.
1971	"And you, little mouse?"
1971	But during the night the mice invaded their camp and gnawed through all the halters, saddle-girths, and reins, while the bears, foxes, and cats growled and howled around the outskirts of the camp with a sound fearful enough to make your blood run cold.
1971	Next night the mice came again, and gnawed through the soldiers' belts and sword-straps, so they had no means of keeping their swords and their breeches on.
1993	And when you have to walk out across an open room, and everybody's watching, you start to mice.
1991	Mickey Mouse sniggers and Greta Garbo averts her pained gaze from our mortified writhings on the shallow fur of cinema seats.
1992	Alina mostly took her breaks alone; she'd sit in a corner with a magazine, usually one of Adele's old wildlife partworks, and be about as obtrusive as a church mouse until her time was over.
1990	If you insert the text cursor at the wrong place don't bother with the mouse, use the cursor keys to move the insertion point to the right place.
1990	The icons are generally activated by an on-screen pointer controlled by a mouse or trackball.
1990	Mouse -
1990	Using the mouse or cursor keys the user points to the main heading of the menu he or she wants and the menu pulls (Windows) or drops (GEM) from the heading.
1990	The effect is exercised by various non-printing guidelines such as column guides, margin guides which automatically places the text or graphics in the correct position flush to the column guide when activated by the mouse.
1990	an on screen mouse operated facility that allows the user to choose from a selection of ‘tools’ to create simple geometric shapes—lines, boxes, circles etc. and to add fill patterns.
1990	That change is one of attitude, attitude towards a computer that many MIS managers regarded until recently as ‘a toy’ or ‘that thing with a mouse’.
1990	The look and feel of the Mac are preserved, though, with both mouse and keyboard commands for most functions.
1990	To operate in the PC environment you may additionally need a windowing environment like GEM or Microsoft Windows, an EGA or Hercules card and matching screen, a mouse and, in some instances, an AT rather than a PC.
1990	This is best controlled with either a tablet and either a stylus or a puck but, given a steady hand, it works pretty well with a mouse.
1990	Of Mice and Men
1990	As long ago as the 1960s the possibility of this form of cursor control was being looked at by the Stanford Research Institute in California and the first mouse was patented in 1970.
1990	The name was coined simply because of the physical similarities of size and shape; a mouse is small enough to fit into the palm of the hand and usually has ‘ears’ and a ‘tail’to complete the picture.
1990	The mouse works by detecting its motion across any surface in both the up/down and left/right directions.
1990	The majority of the currently available mice use a mechanical coupling to transfer the movement of the wheels or roller to the sensors but there are other methods.
1990	In the first system the rotation of the mouse's wheels or ball bearing are transferred to rollers.
1990	One of the most innovative systems is that found in the optical mouse used with the Xerox Star business computer.
1990	This mouse has to be used in conjunction with a special pad that is covered with a pattern of dots.
1990	A light inside the mouse's body illuminates the area of the pad that the mouse is covering and this pattern is detected by a special optical processing chip.
1990	Any movement of the mouse will change the pattern that the chip detects and it can instantly calculate how far it has moved in any direction.
1990	Some systems use as many as three, Microsoft has chosen to fit two and the Apple Lisa mouse has just one.
1990	The buttons can be used to select items from a menu; programs such as Microsoft's MultiTool Word use this facility along with letting the mouse handle the normal cursor motion.
1990	The main attribute of all the various mice and the software that has been produced around them is that is generally easier to use by those unskilled with a keyboard.
1990	Unfortunately the mouse doesn't eliminate the keyboard completely, the basic information still has to be fed into the computer but what is does do is to make the manipulation of that information much simpler.
1990	The text flow can be interrupted at any time by clicking the mouse or the flow method can be altered to semi-automatic or back to manual by clicking in conjunction with the Command or Shift keys.
1990	Additional handles can be added to the second frame simply by clicking on it with the mouse and these are then dragged to re-shape the boundary.
1990	While the PC's strategy means that the user can mix and match additional items like displays, mice and printers it has the immediate disadvantage of requiring many separate manufacturers to maintain the compatibility.
1990	The use of a mouse with its linked screen pointer to select programs, copy disks and carry out any of a thousand functions is now part and parcel of everyday computer life.
1993	‘They're not feeding them, you see, Jim; they want to see if dream mice will keep them alive…’
1993	There was only one form of public transport, the carrier's horse and cart that went once or mice a week to the town, and even then with little room or encouragement for passengers.
1993	The wrapper was usually a very large coloured handkerchief that was wound mice round the neck and tied at one side ‘with two ends left a-flapping’.
1993	I've come home once or Mice with blood coming from my back-collar stud-band and my shoulder bones.
1993	Or mice.
1993	Ashley was glaring at me over the candle flame the way a hawk must glare at a field mouse the instant before it parts mouse from field forever.
1992	He suggested that ‘it is quite credible that the presence of a feline animal in large numbers in a district might determine through the intervention first of mice and then of bees, the frequency of certain flowers in that district!’
1992	The cats caught the mice, which otherwise would destroy the nests of the bees, which were crucial to the fertilization of certain plants.
1985	Is it preferable to be a rat or a mouse — a long-tailed, snaggle-toothed, terror-inspiring rat or a little grey domestic pest?
1985	And then there are those than whom I would rather have mice, and into this latter category fall the Molesworths.’
1985	There is a mouse above me in the roof and I am going to listen to it.
1985	‘Owls and bats and mice and the phantom laugher, I suppose.’
1990	Moth and mouse had thrived down here.
1986	I saw the mouse ascend the ancient timepiece,
1986	‘Remark the mouse that races towards the carpet.’
1986	God tried to teach Mouse how to sing.
1986	Mouse squelched away across the bog.
1986	Stone-numb, Mouse watched the ice-bright stars,
1986	Mouse dreamed a Universe of Blood,
1986	Mouse tried to vomit up his guts
1965	Like a mouse.
1992	This is of course what I did — rather than repeat exactly experiments done on mice or rats that other researchers had already reported, I asked what would happen if I tried a similar procedure with my chicks.
1992	His training protocol exploited the fact that, given a choice between staying in a lighted environment or entering a dark compartment, rodents such as rats or mice will go into the dark.
1992	Material extracted from their brains was then injected into mice, which were then given a similar light/dark choice, though without being shocked.
1992	Mice which had received material from the brains of the trained rats, Ungar claimed, also refused to enter the dark box, whereas animals which received materials from naïve animals showed no such inhibitions.
1992	But perhaps our main concern was even more fundamental — could the behaviour of the injected mice really be said to show learning at all?
1992	In Ungar's test situation, the mice are released into a lighted compartment and their behaviour observed.
1992	The time mice injected with material from the trained rats take to enter the dark box is compared with that for animals injected with ‘naïve’ material.
1992	The common response of a rat or mouse to stress is to freeze and become immobile.
1992	It would be present in the brains of the trained — and shocked — animals in higher concentration than in the naïves — and when injected into mice would in its turn produce freezing  behaviour.
1992	This behaviour would be measured in Ungar's test as an increased reluctance, or even a refusal, to enter the dark compartment within the minute of the trial, simply because the recipient mice were relatively inactive.
1992	To take but one other example from an experimental approach common in the late 1960s and early 1970s, suppose one  trains a mouse by putting it onto a small shelf in the wall of a cage with a grid flour which can be electrified.
1992	In a parallel cage to this learning mouse is another; however, this second cage contains no shelf.
1992	Each time the learning mouse is given an electric shock, so is the parallel ‘yoked’ mouse.
1992	So one seems to have perfect control; both mice have received the same number of shocks, but one learns how to avoid the shock, the other cannot, for there is no escape; the number of shocks it receives is entirely governed by the behaviour of its learning partner.
1992	Thus any differences between them must be caused, not by the shock, but by the fact that the mouse in the cage with the shelf is learning an avoidance response.
1992	Many experiments have used this type of design and have shown differences in rates of protein synthesis between such ‘learning’ mice and their yoked controls, from which it is concluded that the learning rather than the shock produces the biochemical response.
1985	Sometimes you find the panel, but it doesn't open; sometimes it opens, and your gaze meets nothing but a mouse skeleton.
1989	Voles, mice and lemmings are active under the snow in winter, hunted by predatory weasels, stoats, foxes and wolves.
1989	None of the peripheral islands has naturally-occurring land mammals, but many have acquired rats and mice accidentally and browsing and grazing mammals by design; Leader-Williams (1985) lists 15 species introduced to the islands.
1989	Simultaneously many southern islands were devastated by the introduction of pigs, goats, sheep, cattle, rats, mice, cats and other alien species, to the lasting detriment of their vegetation and bird stocks.
1990	I mean sure they're acting their ancestors and they're quite willing (in exchange for some Mickey Mouse presents) to build us a raft and transport us upstream on it and be filmed doing this.
1991	THE CHRISTMAS MOUSE by Robin Crichton
1991	The ones you see may be queens searching for nest sites, such as old mouse holes in hedgebanks.
1991	Decorated with Disney's best loved characters — such as Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck — the Teethe & Cool is filled with sanitised water.
1989	The chance to take your family to meet Mickey Mouse on the holiday of a lifetime
1989	Above: In the Magic Kingdom, Mickey Mouse is a huge favourite with children of all ages.
1991	The ski is mounted with a device called the F-plus ‘ski mouse’, which is powered by a battery and transmits continuously.
1990	‘Mushika’ means ‘that which steals a mouse’.
1990	The word ‘mushikarati’ comes from ‘mushika’and ‘rati’, and means literally, ‘that which delights in, or stops, the mouse’, meaning a cat.
1991	Small rodents such as voles and mice keep active over the winter but decline in numbers — through predation by weasels and especially owls — to a spring low.
1991	Nuts, snakes, frogs, mice, flowers, bulbs and grass all feature on a wild pig's menu.
1991	Usually, the larval stage confines itself to relatively small mammals such as mice, and it is the nymph and adult forms which go for humans, though usually only accidentally.
1991	We'd just moved in when we discovered we had a mouse in the kitchen.
1991	My hunch is that your lump is a ‘breast mouse’ or fibro-adenoma.
1991	This allows the lump to slip about easily — hence the name ‘breast mouse’.
1991	It also asks: ‘Has plague occurred or been suspected among the rats or mice on board?’
1991	The moment that we have the faintest suspicion that the rats or mice on board Silver Salmon have got plague we retire to the golf course for good.
1991	William was just five months 11 days old at the start; he had already sailed over 1,500 miles, was the contented centre of attention and was still fresh from triumph in the fancy dress competition, where he earned himself the prize of a furry whale for his appearance as a white mouse.
1992	Central Marketing Services manager Anne Martin, who is responsible for the Saatchi & Saatchi coal ads featuring a dog, a cat and a mouse in front of a real fire, says: ‘The growth area for domestic coal is supplementary fires, which people incorporate in their living rooms for aesthetic reasons.
1991	I knew that Hannah had experienced problems with rodents so I expected to find rat runs and nests underneath the flags, but only mice had been there.
1991	I have some sheet music which belonged to my mother, unless the mice and rats at Low Birk Hatt have chewed it to bits.
1989	In his memoirs, he later quoted one of his generals saying, as he face his trial and firing squad, that the Americans "threw the Shah out of the country like a dead mouse."
1993	So this is a tree stump we have here, and we found some mice on the way as well.
1993	Did y did you notice the mice on the
1993	Get rid of  mice.
1993	the mice's nest out there   I have some ferns.
1993	The mice get into those, they'll be a bit tipsy.
1993	Right do we want to set up the mouse to display the environment, or what?
1993	Right where, where is, where does that come under mouse, display, environment, initial settings, keyboard layout, location of files.
1993	Or that one or the mouse.
1993	It's not quite the smallest of all the seeds, but nevertheless it's small enough to make a proverbial point like tall as a house, or small as a mouse, small as a grain of mustard seed.
1993	A common interest in cricket brought him in touch with William Bateson [q.v.], with whom he began to collaborate on inheritance in 1903, first in mice and later in peas, fowls, and rabbits.
1993	Its frontispiece shows a cat and mouse with the motto Celebrare domestica facta .
1993	She co-ordinated her release with public-speaking engagements, making use of the Prisoners' Temporary Discharge for Ill Health Act of 1913 (known as the ‘Cat and Mouse Act’).
1986	Parasites, for instance, affect dominance, at least in mice.
1986	W. J. Freeland set up groups of three mice, the different mice having been injected with different quantities of parasites.
1986	The mouse with the least parasites usually became dominant.
1986	Many factors influence the dominance of an individual — its size, strength, sex, health (in mice, at least), age (in primates, but not in hens).
1990	Through her iron self-discipline, Laura had managed to control some of her phobias, such as fear of cows, small insects and mice, but she never obliterated the memory of how she had suffered in younger days.
1993	He was watching her like a cat with a mouse.
1993	But the ‘cat and mouse’ feeling had been growing stronger, ever since yesterday's confrontation in his office and the subsequent tour of the marina.
1993	He must have removed the remains of the heart from  the carpet, or Michael or Maria had cleared it up, like the mouse.
1993	Would Camillo leave her another gift-wrapped mouse?
1993	‘What is this creature,’ said Camillo, ‘a mouse?
1987	‘You're right about an office: people always think you're a Mickey Mouse outfit if you work from home.
1986	answering the question ‘What drinks milk and catches mice?’
1989	In one sense it might also be said to have laboured to produce a mouse.
1990	She had a high voice, almost squeaky like Mickey Mouse's.
1990	‘Exactly how many ringers does he have?’ she said, spying nothing but dustballs and old mouse turds.
1993	‘A mouse perhaps?’
1991	(Nothing to do with mice or holes but probably a corruption of the Cornish Moweshayl, young women's river — perhaps where they did their washing.)
1992	But there was nothing in the emptiness, not even a field mouse.
1992	You aren't a man, you're a mouse!’
1993	From Ansel Adams to Art Nouveau, Monet to Mickey Mouse, penguins to pigs, Leman to Larson, there is a range of social stationery to suit every bookshop profile
1993	Ansel Adams engagement and wall calendars, featuring his photographs of the North American landscape;Cape Light Calendar , photography by Joel Meyerowitz;Artist's Birthday Calendar , featuring Old and Modern Masters;Thomas McKnight Wall Calendar ;The Art of Mickey Mouse Calendar ;Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Calendar and Desk Calendar
1993	Over 300 titles in 1994 calendar and diary range, including Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, Annie Leibovitz, Robert Mapplethorpe, René Magritte, Henri Matisse and Andy Warhol (see Mickey Mouse above) NEC International Spring Fair: hall 3, stand L13
1993	‘If you invent a better mouse trap the world will beat a path to your door’.
1993	Confident that your market research tells you that peoples' houses are overrun with mice, and having used technology from the nuclear industry to develop a better mouse trap, you still have to tell people about it.
0000	Hope your wee flat, bicycle, mouse etc, are fine.
1979	Instances of how some of these registers were destroyed may give us a pointer to the fate of our own; in some cases rats and mice destroyed them, other instances of fire, damp, silver fish, some being stolen and a case where one vicar used the sheets to baste his goose.
1989	Sea Rover's Captain and crew were jailed in Holland after two years of cat and mouse games with the Customs of several nations.
1989	A title "Rodent control:rats and mice" must not be assigned a higher weight than "Rats in the European Economic Community" , although the first contains two additional terms linked to the sought term in a see also relationship.
1982	Put some ice on your head —, Put some mice on your head.
1986	Are you a man or a mouse?
1986	If you believe yourself to be simply an animal without an immortal soul but you also believe that you are capable of making moral judgements, you will need to ask yourself whether cats and mice and birds and insects are also capable of making moral judgements.
1993	You playing with your mouse again?
1993	Smart Drive going in, the new Smart Drive   p p presumably it will put my mouse driv my new mouse driver in for me for the day when I want one?
1993	And then I can ah  well I'll try a  I don't know whether to try a mouse or a MyMouse.
1993	But presumably I can put a mouse driver in later?
1993	You need your mouse.
1993	And your mouse driver still doesn't work!
1993	go to mouse.
1993	We turn him over to DOS first and modify your mouse driver file from
1993	First of all let's use the mouse to edit, see what dri driver it picks up.
1993	No it's not MyMouse it's Microsoft it's Amstrad Mouse, cos I haven't got me real mouse with
1993	Mouse slash D one slash nothing, default
1993	I think that's the old mouse driver.
1993	wiggle my mouse off.
1993	I haven't got a mouse pad unfortunately.
1993	I don I don't put MyMouse in there, I put Mouse in  choose which one I want it in  Okay.
1993	Well when you reboot it then remember to type your mouse command before you start Windows.
1993	I wan I want to see Windows going, I want to see your mouse going on Windows.
1993	Okay you want to see the mouse going on Windows.
1993	So start your mouse d have you rebooted yet?
1993	Oh mice driver, mouse driver.
1993	Load your mouse driver
1993	You didn't load your mouse driver?
1993	I will start me mouse, excludes all of the .
1993	Right, let's have mouse.
1993	Set up the mouse
1993	Mouse Microsoft, oh it already thinks you've got a mouse.
1993	Yeah, we've got a wrong driver  and I didn't have one in my things so I might have to regroup with a proper   let's have a look in DOS and see what mouse drivers it's got.
1993	W i it'll be in Windo where will it keep its mouse driver, in DOS or Windows?
1993	Yeah but where will the mouse driver live?
1993	It's a special mouse port.
1993	P S Two plus mouse   P S Two
1993	Let's go to M S DOS  and see if we can get the mouse working in M S DOS
1993	Mouse.
1993	something about using mouse in the in the DOS box.
1993	Oh this must be like mouse .
1993	Oh this is where you really do need a mouse.
1993	Changing mouse options,
1993	If I had a mouse I just click in the top corner.
1993	its settings for  mouse  let's have a look in drivers erm  you haven't got a mouse, have you?
1993	any, any other sort of mouse I could have brought me mouse with me and we could have run it off the serial port  erm it's a pain that Amstrad mouse.
1993	So we don't want P S Two mouse, so it might be a, it might be just a serial port there after all then.
1993	General  General help  mouse   program manager now  general help
1993	Where's your Amstrad mouse driver?
1993	It's a weird thing erm it starts off in the root and then it erm u used a single mouse fix to patch it
1993	And there's something called mouse.
1993	MyMouse,Mouse Com, Mouse Fix
1993	Now MyMouse Com is for running the serial mouse.
1993	So what happens when you run Mouse Com?
1993	No I think you'd run Mouse Fix first.
1993	How about running Mouse Fix and see what happens?
1993	Oh it just gave us a nice thing saying I've fixed your mouse, thank you very much.
1993	Now we'll try, now having fixed the mouse we'll try and run Mouse Com.
1993	what it might have done is that probably didn't need doing because Mouse Com was probably already fixed and now we're unfixing it ?
1993	So we haven't got a better mouse driver.
1993	It's awkward using this without a mouse.
1993	Right, let's get into DOS directory and pick up a Mouse Com or a mouse driver from there erm and execute, it will copy it into the root.
1993	We're overwriting that mouse driver there, because that is my old mouse driver I think.
1993	So  a real mouse driver somewhere?
1993	Well, that mouse runs
1993	it runs everything erm and all you do is just say mouse.
1993	Ah, do I see mouse, do I say mouse?
1993	Reboot it, start Windows without running your mouse driver, see if Windows will run it itself.
1993	No hard boot with a mouse.
1993	a right-handed mouse here.
1993	I could be doing this with the mouse but .
1993	mouse drivers
1993	Right, mouse drivers
1993	mouse drivers, take the mouse drivers out.
1993	mouse driver
1993	Oh as I remember it installs a backward compatible mouse driver which will  do
1993	will do all your previous mouse jobs but also work with Windows.
1993	Nobody's turned the mouse on.
1993	I don't, I don't put the mouse on in the erm the config sys or autoexec bat
1993	Right, MyMouse is remmed out cos I don't want  I don't erm I, I choose when I start, which mouse driver I start on one, one of the mouse port and one of the serial erm  times.
1993	And that erm probably, possibly could run it off there as a P S Two mouse but erm I've heard
1993	that Amstrad mice are sort
1993	I've, I've fried a mouse and a port  doing that.
1993	There's a big menu here for mouse type,.
1976	"When you're a mouse.
1976	"Mouses making buns," Deborah had said the afternoon before when flour and raisins had been discovered in a corner.
1976	"Mouses can have party," Susannah had added.
1976	"Mouses can have games if they want to."
1976	"Mouses did," Deborah explained.
1976	"Two mouses came out of the"
1988	Quietly as a mouse, Lalage picked  her up and, candlestick in hand, went carefully through the darkened house to the hall door where she waited, the candle flame blowing flat and sideways, until Nettie came back, grateful and apologetic for the trouble she had given.
1986	Narrow staircases, infested with mouse droppings, where those who had no money whatsoever huddled on the steps for shelter, coming like wraiths in the night when they were less likely to be turned away, and drifting off again in the early morning.
1993	A man of sophistication and wide experience, he recognised her lack of both and was teasing her like a cat playing with a mouse.
1989	As had not been the case throughout her first sojourn at the Lodge, she would start from her thoughts at some unexpected sound — a movement of the timbers, a mouse stirring in the wainscot, a drenched thrush fluffing its feathers in the thatch-eaves.
1991	So now he knew where the mouse droppings had come from on Egan's clothes.
1991	Left a note saying the mice were getting him down.
1989	What is it about vacuum flasks that makes every drink taste like there's a chunk of dead mouse at the bottom?
1982	CAT AND MOUSE
1982	The mouse crouched, staring out the chance
1982	Round the mouse's dulled wintering heart.
1982	The mouse's ear unfurls its trust,
1982	The mouse's saviour is a ripe wheat grain.
1982	Like a mouse with drowning fur
1992	But he seemed happy to play along — like a cat with a mouse.
1992	The mice in their home-made cage on the table by the window sprang to life at the sound of her voice and began to scutter desperately around their dwelling.
1992	On it lay her attempt at drawing the mice.
1992	‘You'd be much better off in the dining-room,’ Alexandra said to the mice.
1992	‘I wish I were you,’ Alexandra said, ‘I wish I were a mouse,’and then, drawn inexorably, she leaned forward across the table and looked down through the closed window at her mother's upturned face below.
1992	When the mice had scattered across the carpet and melted into the shadows by the wainscoting, Alexandra picked up their home of five days and carried it back to her tower room.
1992	She remembered the sketches of mice and the dusty clarinet and blushed at the recollection.
1992	And then he gave orders to Punch for tea to be prepared and they had a terrible time finding any china that wasn't cracked or broken and then she went on working in the pantry as quiet as  a mouse and she could hear you both talking as clear as clear.
1982	‘Like a church mouse.
1993	‘The assassin has marked us down for death, but first he is playing with us like a cat does with a mouse.
1993	They'll take one look at my clothes and know I'm as poor as a church mouse.’
1992	Like a mouse sensing a cat about to pounce.
1992	The clamour grew around him, Cranston and Athelstan moved closer, their hands on their wallets as the crowd was infested with naps, foists and pickpockets as a rick of hay with mice and rats.
1992	singular to plural forms; for example, Mouse see Mice.
1986	Its fledgelings in new nests and baby mice.
1993	Don't be a mouse.
1991	And even those captives who'd got back to Danu, the town I mean, had been merely mice — helpless and squeaking — rolled this way and that as the cat pleased.
1991	For a big man, he always seemed to move so silently, like a cat hoping to catch a mouse.
1988	The hip could experiment and buy  Coltrane, the mass market could buy Johnny Dankworth's modern jazz pastiche, ‘Experiments with mice’, in enough numbers to make it seven in the April 1956 hit parade.
1991	‘Mean as church mice’, said Miss Tilley drily.
1993	The blue eyes studied her lazily in the mirror, and she had the strangest sensation he was toying with her as a cat would a mouse before a kill.
1992	In Windows 3.0 you simply highlight the text with the mouse to mark it.
1992	After this you can use the mouse to highlight the formula.
1992	Moving to the rear of the machine the SIR has the usual collections of Ports; 2 Serial Ports (one 9-pin Mouse port and one 25-pin RS232C port) 1 Parallel Port, 1 Game Port, and 1 VGA Monitor Port.
1992	The mouse has a two-position switch that allows this rodent to be switched between its two personalities — Microsoft or Mouse Systems mode.
1992	Finger VGA is a full colour image processing, painting and animation program (mouse required).
1992	A mouse is required to direct the shots from your laser cannons, the longer you last, the more threads that fall.
1992	If present a mouse will be used and that can speed up operation of the game.
1992	The puzzle supports mouse, joystick or keyboard and has four levels of difficulty, giving hours of fun for all ages.
1992	With thirteen graph types, array manipulation facilities and full mouse interface As Easy As is going to take some beating.
1992	Pull down menus offer easy access to the multitude of facilities and options can be selected by mouse or keyboard.
1992	PC-Write version 4.00 features spell check (includes auto check as you type), preview mode, advanced and novice menu configurations, windowed operation for multiple document editing and full mouse operation.
1992	This one is mouse controlled and is ideal for encouraging children to use the PC and mouse.
1992	Total Disks: 1 Fire up your mouse for non-stop action in this high-octane graphics arcade game.
1992	You do need a mouse and minimum 286 machine to run it.
1992	Using a mouse is optional but it does make the game more playable.
1992	Order Code: 10380 Total Disks: 1 A highly colourful VGA version of the popular Tetris game that provides mouse support if a suitable mouse is attached.
1992	The mouse support is very intelligent, allowing you to rotate, position and drop the blocks almost without thinking.
1992	With thirteen graph types, array manipulation facilities and full mouse interface As Easy As is going to take some beating.
1992	Pull down menus offer easy access to the multitude of facilities and options can be selected by mouse or keyboard.
1992	PC-Write version 4.00 features spell check (includes auto check as you type), preview mode, advanced and novice menu configurations, windowed operation for multiple document editing and full mouse operation.
1992	One of the improvements in this version is that you can get an instant description of an icon just by clicking the right mouse button.
1992	Use your mouse
1992	Ami Pro 3.0 uses the mouse much more than the previous version.
1992	Drag and Drop, a facility to move and copy text by selecting it and then holding down the mouse button, is now included.
1992	While Word for Windows 2 already included Drag and Drop, a more novel use of the mouse is SmartClick which uses the right button.
1992	For example, if you have inserted a frame into your document when you select it and right click on the mouse you access the Modify Frame Layout dialog box.
1992	Step 5 CAPTION- Change the icon pixel by pixel by choosing colours from the Editor's palette and using the mouse to apply them.
1992	Keyboard, mouse and joystick are supported, but every now and then the planes seem to do their own thing!
1992	On the techie side CAMPAIGN requires an 80286 as minimum, but a 80386 16Mhz is recommended, graphics are EGA and VGA/MCGA, hard disk (4Mb) and a mouse are necessary and the usual SoundBoards are supported.
1992	Bad Points: Although the software can be used with a keyboard only, this is very slow and laborious, so if you don't have a mouse it's worthwhile investing in one.
1992	It is also advantageous, although not absolutely necessary, to use a mouse.
1992	These pull-down menus can all be accessed either by pressing ALT and the appropriate letter, or by clicking on them with the mouse.
1992	The hardware requirements list on the box doesn't specify that a mouse is needed.
1992	A mouse is also a necessity, although the list of hardware requirements on the back of the box doesn't mention this.
1992	To use the software you will need a 386 based PC, a VGA monitor and adapter, and a mouse, as well as your CD-ROM player, and as the program runs under Windows, you should have Windows 3.1 installed on your system.
1992	Does the mouse pointer still work even if the keyboard doesn't?
1992	Try not to click with mouse and type on the keyboard while Windows is frozen because when it comes back it acts on all of the commands that you have given it — so apparently switching from a state of deep sleep to rapid activity that can look like another stage in a serious crash!
1992	Other enhancements such as the mouse pointer changing shape according to the function currently selected and changing curve points to corner points may be of less use but at the very least point to a great amount of thought being paid to the design of the program.
1992	From this screen you can enter a number of commands, such as copying files, loading programs from the directory tree, formatting disks, or (most important) backing up your system,(saving all the information on your HDD in case of accidental damage or loss) just by highlighting the necessary on-screen text information with either the keyboard or mouse cursor, and pressing return/double clicking the mouse button.
1992	Adding a mouse to the system will almost certainly mean an addition to one of these files, but most mouse software will automatically introduce the necessary line(s) to the config.sys file.
1992	Point the mouse cursor (seen here as an arrow) onto the required program and double-click on the left mouse button to highlight and operate the program.
1992	Place your pointer over the cross, and drag the border along the row to cell L1, and release the mouse button.
1992	Easy Boot allows you to have fifteen separate configurations available at the touch of a mouse button, or the press of a key.
1992	You can use the whole thing with a mouse (is there anything you can't use a mouse with these days?), but we found that the I-beam cursor was anything but stable with a mouse.
1992	Cons A slight bug in the mouse cursor routines
1992	Many word-processor programs support the use of a mouse.
1992	The mouse pointer can be used to place the text cursor anywhere on the document and also to activate menus and commands.
1992	Generally speaking, it is easier to learn and use the keyboard equivalents of the mouse movements to activate menus as it saves having to remove your hands from the keyboard.
1992	The mouse does, however, come into its own when editing, highlighting and moving blocks of text.
1992	Passages of text or individual letters or words are highlighted by ‘dragging’ the mouse cursor over the area.
1992	The mouse can be used to drag and drop tables, join fields, etc. to construct quite complex queries without having to enter any complex program codes.
1992	The idea is that you bring along a fully licensed copy of a rival business application, buy a Microsoft Office Trade-In pack, which includes a mouse mat, voucher and pre-paid envelope, post the voucher with proof of ownership and Microsoft sends you Office 3.0, which has a recommended price of £575.
1992	Although a mouse is not vital, I'd suggest that it makes using FP a whole lot easier.
1992	Moving your mouse pointer over the scene will tell you what the object is beneath the pointer.
1992	It's nice to see a keyboard bashing and mouse jerking game once in a while but this game lacks events and the numerous score board screens really frustrate me.
1992	Control of the ship can be handled by mouse, joystick or keyboard.
1992	Whether is it typed in via the keyboard, generated via mouse movements or information received from any other external source.
1992	Open the ‘Options’ menu either by clicking on the menu bar with the mouse or typing the ALT and O keys together.
1992	Unwanted files can be highlighted and, by holding the left-hand mouse button, dragged level with the DUSTBIN directory.
1992	Press Tab to move to the next level in and Shift-Tab to move back out again (or you can drag using the mouse).
1992	OK) MOUSE 14000 (13.7K) FREE 18704 (18.3K) Total FREE 18704 (18.3K) Total bytes available to programs (Conventional+Upper) 62161.6 (607.
1992	CIC is already one of the world leaders in pen operating systems, having produced PenDOS, an environment specifically designed for use not only in developing totally new pen based applications, but also for transforming existing mouse driven DOS and Windows applications so that they can become ‘pen aware’.
1992	For those people who want to use a mouse, Windows Bridge also has a way of tracking the speed and direction of the screen cursor using a series of different sounds.
1992	Adding a mouse to your system
1992	The system is very smooth, with actions selected either by moving the cursor to the top of the screen, or by clicking down the other mouse button which scrolls through the actions.
1992	This works well once you get used to the mouse routine, and is considered so simple by Sierra that they no longer include any documentation in this respect!
1992	A mouse is also recommended, the normal soundboards are supported including an excellent SoundBlaster/Roland for sound effects/music combination.
1992	Finally the latest generation of spreadsheets for DOS — SuperCalc 5.5, Lotus 1-2-3 and Quattro Pro — all include the facility to use a mouse.
1992	Even if you are mouse phobe you should at least give it a try because you might be surprised at how easy it makes common operations.
1992	When the mouse cursor enters this menu bar the main menu is displayed which controls the 19 primary functions of MegaCAD.
1992	Mouse or Graphics Tablet
1992	In recent years the introduction of high power graphics cards and GUI's have meant that we are no longer faced with the plain vanilla text and a mouse isn't just a furry rodent, but still many applications are based around text, multi media will change all that, bringing 24-bit colour and digital quality sound to our PC's.
1992	Imagine using your mouse to press a button labelled Mozart and being treated to a near CD quality reproduction of ‘Eine kleine Nachtmusik’ whilst looking at, for example, the score or maybe watching a digital tour of Strasbourg.
1992	A mouse without a tail, the PC variety I mean, is nothing new.
1992	Until now, however, cordless mice have usually made do with an infra red link to feed mouse movements and button clicks to the PC.
1992	The receiver unit needs to face the business end of mouse, but if your desk is as cluttered as mine you will quickly see how problematical this could end up being.
1992	As long as the mouse is within about five feet of the receiver unit, it will work no matter which way it is pointed, even with obstacles like cups and books in between.
1992	The mouse itself is a no-compromise exercise in ergonomics.
1992	There isn't a line of geometrical symmetry in sight — it rates as one of the most comfortable PC mice I've tried yet.
1992	An unobtrusive LED on top indicates when the mouse is on the move.
1992	It struck me this mouse would be very attractive to portable users, but the generous serial lead to the receiver unit is a bit inconvenient for this.One thing I noticed straight away compared with my A4 Tech Microsoft Mouse clone was that it was necessary to reduce the movement sensitivity of my Windows mouse driver.
1992	Version 6.20 of Logitech's versatile MouseMan driver software is supplied and this offers various utilities like programmable mouse buttons, Windows pointer customisation and even an option for the pointer to temporarily grow as it moves.
1992	These latter features are joined by other neat utilities for LCD screen users to combat that frustrating mouse pointer invisibility syndrome.A choice of four switchable radio channels is provided just in case there is any external radio interference, for example, from other radio controlled devices.
1992	A small button underneath the mouse can be pressed to reveal which channel it is set to by counting the number of times a neighbouring LED blinks.
1992	To change channel, select the desired number on the receiver unit and keep the button pressed under the mouse until the receiver unit LED starts blinking.
1992	On the other hand, it's not cheap and the slight lag between mouse movements and the screen response I experienced needs sorting.
1992	If you're set on getting a cordless mouse Logitech's contender must be seriously considered.
1992	SongWright 5.1 benefits from laser output and mouse input.
1992	The mouse allows you to click the notes into position on the stave and saves a lot of keying time.
1992	These are activated by the function keys or by clicking with the mouse.
1992	This works reasonably well, but for speed, a mouse is essential.
1992	The text is entered directly from the keyboard having first selected its position between the staves with the mouse pointer.
1992	For: Easy note entry by using a mouse.
1992	Clicking the mouse onto a screen key sounds the respective pitch.
1992	The program can be operated, in the main, with a mouse which speeds movement around the screen.
1992	Unfortunately the mouse cannot be used to actually enter notes and symbols, but keying the notes in is straightforward so this is no great hardship.
1992	Its unique ‘dynamic views’ lets users change the arrangement of spreadsheet data instantly, with a click of a mouse, without having to re-enter data and manually reconstruct the entire worksheet.
1992	Right mouse button Quick Menus for common editing commands and access to InfoBox
1992	The control of printers, monitors, fonts and mice are all managed by Windows, making program development that much easier.
1992	Double clicking the mouse whilst the pointer is over a selected area is the normal way of starting any application from an icon.
1992	A single mouse click would simply highlight the item.
1992	Here you can set the speed that the mouse cursor moves across the screen relative to the mouse movement on your desk.
1992	You can alter the numbers by:-1) Highlighting the part you want to change with the mouse and typing in the new value (the old value is automatically deleted).
1992	2) Positioning the mouse cursor on the text line and using the backspace or delete keys to delete the numbers and then typing in the new value.
1992	Position the mouse pointer within either window area and click.
1992	The bar in the upper left part of the window activates a pop-up menu either by clicking with the mouse or by pressing the ALT and HYPHEN (-) keys together.
1992	This menu is used mainly for keyboard operation as most operations are quicker and easier with a mouse.
1992	Words which may need further explanation are shown highlighted and, when selected with the mouse pointer, reveal a word definition.
1992	Double-click — A mouse procedure where the left-hand mouse button is pressed twice in quick succession.
1992	I have just obtained an Amstrad 1512 PC with colour monitor, keyboard and mouse, which is being retired from the depths of my company's stores.
1992	The Power Keyboard and Power Mouse programs allow you to alter the way your input devices work — perhaps you want Excel to re-calculate when you hold down <ALT> and click the right mouse button.
1992	Launches Power Mouse, which does for your mouse what Power keyboard does for your keyboard.
1992	You move between screens by clicking with the right mouse button on the portion you want to view, and drag the application windows you see here to the portion of the virtual desktop you want them to reside in.
1992	Simply clicking on the Koopa with the mouse pointer before he gets away will trip him up.
1992	Thus, when you're setting up the mouse, for instance, if you've got MOUSE.COM loaded, Presentations senses it and uses its MOUSE.COM interface.
1992	On the other hand, it can auto-sense a gamut of mice, from Logitech Bus mice to Microsoft mice and beyond.
1992	How reliable this will be is difficult to say, since it couldn't find an old Logitech Serial Mouse we had on the test machine, but always found the pre-loaded mouse driver — but this is beta test software, so there's still work to be done.
1992	Mouse drivers Supports over 20 sound cards
1992	Of course if you have a mouse installed you can achieve the same result by simply pointing and clicking on the menu option.
1992	All you have to do is select Start from the Run menu — by typing Alt-R followed by S or using a mouse or typing Shift and F5 (the shortcut key).
1992	As the mouse pointer hovers above each button, or indeed any of the drop-down menu options, a short description of the function appears in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen making it really easy to produce your first spreadsheet with minimum reference to the manual.
1992	Pointing at the object and pressing the right mouse button displays each object's properties.
1992	Object properties, once set, can be redefined simply by re-clicking the right mouse button.
1992	A palette with 256 colours allows simple selection of colours for lines by clicking the left mouse button and for fills by clicking the right mouse button.
1992	In order to run the software, which is supplied on both 5.25″ and 3.5″ floppy disks, you will need at least 640k RAM; Hercules, EGA, CGA or VGA graphics and a mouse.
1992	These include mouse support, zoom, a distance measurement function, and options for drawing lines and circles on the maps.
1992	To run the software you will need Windows 3.0 or higher, a VGA monitor and graphics card, a hard disk with 3MB free memory, a mouse and a good sense of humour.
1992	These include mouse support, zoom, a distance measurement function, and options for drawing lines and circles on the maps.
1992	To run the software you will need Windows 3.0 or higher, a VGA monitor and graphics card, a hard disk with 3MB free memory, a mouse and a good sense of humour.
1992	This is a simple easy to use 16 colour paint package that needs a mouse to run.
1992	This little mouse driven program will allow you to create backdrops and actors to make your own cartoon production.
1992	A mouse makes the game more playable but is not essential.
1992	Using a mouse is optional but it does make the game more playable.
1992	You do need a mouse to run this program but it is that good it is worth buying one just to play.
1992	With thirteen graph types, array manipulation facilities and full mouse interface As Easy As is going to take some beating.
1992	Pull down menus offer easy access to the multitude of facilities and options can be selected by mouse or keyboard.
1992	Hardware/Device Support — CPU Types 8086/80286/80386/80486 — Screen Types & resolutions — Mouse Types — Printer Types.
1992	SuperCalc 5.5 represents an important move towards a graphical user interface and this is very good news for every SuperCalc user who likes using a mouse — or who is prepared to try out a mouse for the extra shortcuts that make SuperCalc 5.5 easier to use than its predecessors.
1992	Until now SuperCalc lacked mouse support and its users found it perfectly possible to do without it.
1992	This is so much easier with the mouse — with more than one page displayed you can just select cells and jump to them — and I would certainly urge every user of SuperCalc 5 to upgrade without hesitation.
1992	Q Amstrad mouse
1992	I have an Amstrad PC2086 with a VGA monitor.The mouse cursor does not appear in VGA mode although the mouse still works if I can guess its position.
1992	Is there a software fix for mouse.com or do I need a serial mouse?
1992	This one is a puzzle because I used a PC2386 for ages without any mouse trouble but there was an update to the driver issued soon after I started using it.
1992	If your 2086 is a vintage model then it is worth checking with Amstrad for an upgrade to the mouse driver.
1992	Incidentally the Amstrad mouse driver is only MOUSE.COM and don't try using other mouse drivers because they definitely don't work.
1992	I also wouldn't switch to a serial mouse until you have checked that the driver is up-to-date.
1992	Still it's nice to know that there is a way of achieving 100% industry compatibility and serial mice are very cheap at the moment.
1992	The program displays a black outline drawing and your child simply uses the mouse to choose a colour and then points at the area to fill in.
1992	You control a gunsight with your mouse and shoot at targets on a range.
1992	Presented in VGA colour graphics and using a mouse, the game looks good and is easy to play.
1992	A Microsoft or compatible mouse is required.
1992	You control the gun sights movement with your mouse and the idea is to aim at the moving targets using your mouse button to shoot.
1992	For anyone with a mouse and minimum EGA monitor this game is well worth getting for its super smooth graphics.
1992	Other nice features include some good VGA graphics (you do need VGA and an AT class machine, but not a mouse), a two player mode and bonus points for learning some neat moves.
1992	As Windows sorts out the (hardware) men from the boys, there's a large section of the book dedicated to exploiting your disc drives, keyboards, mice and pointing devices, modems, networks, printers and video boards and monitors and I found that section particularly impressive.
1992	The program does not have mouse support but this is not a problem as the menu options are accessed via the F2 key.
1992	The program is surprisingly powerful and even allows scripts to be written so that mouse or keyboard input can be made as the show is run.
1992	This is done by clicking the mouse pointer either on the top right-hand upward pointing arrow or the extreme top left-hand dash.
1992	A quality keyboard, low-radiation monitor, Microsoft mouse and a stylish system case.
1992	Items supplied as standard with every computer are Microsoft WinWindows 3.1, DOS 5.0, a Microsoft mouse, mouse mat, keyboard and a 14″ SVGA non-interlaced low-radiation monitor.
1992	If you are using an extended keyboard there are alternative methods to just using the mouse to select the area.
1992	I would because having used spreadsheets both with and without a mouse I know that lots of spreadsheet operations are easier with one.
1992	I therefore welcome the inclusion of SmartIcons that extend the range of operations that you can easily do with the mouse.
1992	Even though this is a DOS program is has many of the characteristics of a Windows user-interface — drop down lists, dialog boxes and so on— and it is very easy to use with a mouse.
1992	Version 4.1 has a new Windows interface complete with customisable icon button bar, a floating menu that pops up when you click the right mouse button, interactive tab settings, more levels of zoom and TrueType font support.
1992	(However you can still work very well with a one, two or three button mouse.)
1992	The neat little track ball mouse built into the keyboard is a joy to use and more responsive than the larger versions I have used.
1992	In the beginning, the Apple Macintosh showed the way to do things, with its whole operating system being based on Windows, Icons, Mice and Pointers (WIMP).
1992	As an aside here, OS/2 requires a minimum of a 386SX processor, 4MB of RAM, a mouse, and a recommended minimum of 60 megabytes of hard drive, with at least 15 megabytes free space and preferably lots more.
1992	The main complaint that I have about d'Compress is that it does not use standard DOS key and mouse commands.
1992	At the back and one parallel and two serial ports, together with PS/2 type sockets for the mouse and keyboard and printer and video ports.
1992	The system also comes with a colour monitor, Microsoft mouse and high quality (if noisy) keyboard as standard, plus Windows 3.1 and DOS 5.0.
1990	The last thing he wants is to turn a marauder into a mouse.
1992	THE ULTIMATE [PATENTED]BETTER MOUSE TRAP
1992	The electronic mouse detector system introduced by Rentokil over a year ago has now received full patent protection [no 2,179481]and several companies have installed the system in order to protect their businesses with the best possible ‘early warning system’, yet without chemical rodenticides.
1992	Each Mouse Alert system comprises a network of up to 360 strategically placed infra-red electronic sensor boxes.
1992	At the first sign of mouse activity the control panel indicates with both visual and audible alarm signals where the sensor has been activated, and a quick response by a Rentokil serviceman enables the intruder to be dealt with before harm is done.
1992	The wide applications of Mouse Alert have already been seen by a variety of customers, whose needs range from protecting high technology equipment, ensuring that perishable foods leave premises uncontaminated, and knowing that pharmaceutical products remain sterile.
1992	Just one mouse in any of these premises can, by a gnawed cable or a dropping, bring production to a standstill, and tests have shown Mouse Alert to be significantly faster and more reliable than visual inspections and conventional baiting.
1992	Today, on several of the new wharf developments there are huge rat and mice infestations.
1992	Visitors were intrigued by the live specimens, marionettes and innovations such as the Mouse Alert and the mini bubble.
1992	Apart from malarial mosquitoes, a surprising number of aircraft are being grounded because of the presence of rats and mice on board.
0000	He introduced existing and potential clients to Mouse Alert, pheromone detectors, tamper resistant bait boxes, the use of EFK's and Pestguard.
0000	They were not even deterred by some afternoon rain but carried on enjoying themselves kitted out in colourful Mickey Mouse ponchos.
1991	This was to rid Glasgow's Arches of rats and mice and any other pests that were lurking there.
0000	There have been reports of mice in one area of the Village.
1990	She wondered why he didn't step across it; he reminded her of the white mice they had let out of the cage one day.
1990	It had taken the mice a long time to explore, they had made short excited scurrying runs across the floor, then back to the hutch, nervous, unsure, limiting themselves to a small prescribed space, only later stepping out of it, extending their freedom.
1990	Wherever they were, they couldn't help sensing the presence of the man with the tent at the far end of the bank; it was there with them as they crossed the field and pushed through the hedge, in the musty smell of nettles and the white lumps raised on their skin, in the bramble scratches, and the brown fungus that hung from dead trees Libby felt it but she was also attracted by the thought of someone who was ill, someone she could help or look after, like the white mice or the jackdaw with the damaged wing.
1993	Yes but such is the life of mice and men.
0000	I can see the horses and even the timorous harvest mice scurrying through a forest of stubble.
1988	So if I press erm a function key on the keyboard what happens next on the screen, if I click the mouse on a certain icon on the screen what happens next.
1988	In developing a product these days everybody's been very used to using P Cs, using graphical user interfaces, the idea of a mouse, drop- down menus, so on and so forth, and we should employ that technology.
1988	Clearly the degree of definition we can go to is only one character, but we have drop down menus we have the ability to move pop up windows and dialog boxes, the ability to scroll horizontally and vertically within those windows, and the ability to emulate the use of a mouse by the use of arrow keys and the numeric keypad on an ordinary character terminal.
1988	And they understand those devices and work with them very well, they're not particularly interested in a mouse and all sorts of graphical facilities because their job in life is to get information quickly into and quickly out of the system.
1986	So they'd been playing cat and mouse game and er it hasn't paid off you know.
1993	Then she will know more than she did as she went up the stairs, my little English mouse.
1993	Inside her thoughts were running around frantically, like the mouse her had called her so tauntingly.
1993	That family is as poor as church mice, and Stair told me that Havvie had already managed to snare one Yankee heiress, but she got away, and now he has caught another — not quite so rich, but rich enough.
1993	‘Minnie Mouse!
1993	She climbed a tree and made a tree-house, not with planks and nails and a hammer, but with willow branches, weaving like a harvest mouse, hauling cushions and books and food and drink with her: camping outside her own house, unseen but with a view all round.
1993	This time it was his eyes that were narrowed as he watched her as closely as any cat after a mouse.
1993	You wanted me on a string so you could play cat to my mouse…
0000	Most noticeably the mouse has become a prominent computer accessory.
0000	Quite complicated functions may be performed with mice via the use of menus and icons.
0000	However a mouse is not a replacement for a keyboard, simply a supplement.
1993	Big Ted and Andy the Mouse, his hand puppet, are in the bed with him.
1993	I got a special mouse hat.
1993	We all just sat there like Mickey Mouse was dead or something, and then we got on the train and went back home and didn't say anything to each other, and all the kids at school thought I'd made the whole thing up.
1993	Andy the Mouse is a puppet, and John is a puppeteer.
1993	Nobody knows John talks to his mouse like this.
1993	The book turns out to be an American novel for children, about a mouse who is born into a human family and has many adventures.
1993	Stuart is just like everybody else, except he is very short and a mouse.
1993	Andy the Mouse lies on the other pillow.
1993	John turns to Andy the Mouse.
1993	‘You have to go to Disneyland,’ Andy the Mouse says.
1993	‘I'm a mouse.
1993	Do you know how many role models there are for a young mouse?
1993	‘He was a fanatic union buster,’ John lectures the mouse.
1993	‘It wasn't McCarthy, it was the House Un-American Activities Committee,’ the mouse says, ‘and none of this is relevant.
1993	Andy the Mouse lies on the other pillow.
1993	‘Come on, John,’ says Andy the Mouse.
1993	The mouse chokes back a sob of gratitude.
1993	Andy the Mouse got pretty manic and spent half an hour talking shop with a Mickey.
1993	Araminta almost had it as a child, but it went fair — and then mouse, poor wretch!’
1992	Certain collections Mickey Mouse ephemera or period memorabilia need a range of different treatments to display them to their best advantage: dot pictures and plaques round the wall, arrange toys and crockery on shelves, lay rugs on the floor.
1993	And I'm Minnie Mouse.
1993	On my left, three stringy adolescent snakes emerge in unison from a small opening like ground mice.
1993	A girl emerged from the dairy with a pan of milk and was instantly surrounded by the stable cats, mewing pleadingly as though they had not caught a single mouse for days.
0000	Under siege from termites, goats, mice, rainstorms and — on a final stopover in Rome — thieves, the precious pieces of paper were only a little more vulnerable than the author himself.
0000	Ants and mice and rats, some said, had crept between the bricks of their new storehouses and eaten half their crop.
0000	like mice without ears,
0000	They have been to church once, for Nan Arthur's funeral, and all they remember is the smell of dusty curtains and a dead mouse under the pews.
1993	Agrippa's black cat sat beneath one of the heavy, gold-encrusted arrasses, crouched like a panther, his amber eyes studying me as if I was a mouse.
1963	‘I could have a mouse.
1963	Prisoners have mice.
1963	Or mice.
1963	They block up the holes and kill the mice with poison.’
1992	The Mickey Mouse figures on CTC expenditure that critics in Bradford tend to use compare capital expenditure on schools starting from scratch with that for existing schools that do not have to be built.
1992	Are those the candy-floss, Mickey Mouse jobs that the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) goes on about so much, or are those people just sponging off the backs of the poll tax payers?
1992	But in battle as in life, as Robert Burns said:’ The best laid schemes o' mice an' men Gang aft a-gley’.
0000	The kinds of devices that the research will be looking at include a touchscreen, a joystick, a mouse and a trackball.
1993	Irish champion Charlie Swann had been approached by trainer Homer Scott to ride the horse but Swann has been claimed for Cahervillahow trained by Mouse Morris.
1993	Cahervillahow, who is trained by Mouse Morris, missed all of last year because of a foot injury and has failed to show his old sparkle this term.
1993	Cahervillahow ran no race in the Gold Cup but he might be turned on by the National as was the case with Attitude Adjuster who was also trained by Mouse Morris.
1993	Charlie is still with Hughes who along with Noel Meade, has first claim on him, although he rode Cahervillahow in the Gold Cup for Mouse Morris, his old partner.
1993	Trainer Mouse Morris confirmed today that the horse was a runner.
1993	For years those of us who have played a cat and mouse game with cagey manager Billy Bingham over team selections could always be sure that Donaghy's name would be the first one down on the sheet.
1993	In the other semi another King Richard player, John ‘Rocky’ Meaney won a cat and mouse duel 3–2 against Hillfoot's Billy Tumlinson who is certainly a star in the making.
0000	In essence, this makes the mouse pointer disappear disconcertingly when the pointer is moved on the pad.
1985	The colour reproduction was inaccurate, and the screen refresh rate was too slow, so that the mouse pointer was lost while in motion.
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: yes
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse: no
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse:
1985	Mouse
1985	What users see on their machines is trending towards Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs), where icons representing programs, and pull-down menus within programs, are manipulated using a mouse.
0000	I didn't much like it, mice and such like have always given me the creeps, but I did feel sorry for it being shut up.
1989	Then we almost enjoyed the Great Escape from Seve Ballesteros who followed Paul Azinger into the Mickey Mouse blue-dyed water which made this the greatest spectator show on earth…
1984	‘Well it's a mouse — it must be — you know, under the skirting board.
1984	Mice.
1984	Carolyn chewed a mouthful of toast, then said, ‘There's mice in the kitchen.’
1984	‘I like mice,’ said Clare.
1993	On his first day of arrival  he was told the authorities had closed EuroDisney down  and when he asked why, he was told someone had reported to the authorities that a six foot mouse was walking round the day before.
1993	Of Mice and Men: that sounded nice.
1993	A tongue or a mouse's tail retracts within
1991	and sang ‘Three blind mice, three blind mice’.
1991	Critical Essay: George (Of Mice and Men)
1991	He allows Lennie to pet mice and was going to let him keep one of Slim's new pups.
1991	He always puts up with Lennie, and is there whenever Lennie is feeling ashamed or unwanted and produces his ‘I could just go to the hills and’ I could find a cave, and pet mice’speech.
1991	Even dissertations that manage to reach the library shelves usually face nothing more than the gnawing criticism of mice.’
1992	It is for nearly 12 miles so narrow, that a mouse cannot pass by any carriage…
1966	Stok quoted it with an excellent Highland accent, ‘Robert Burns,’ pronounced Stok,’‘To a Mouse’.’
1966	Don't play cat and mouse like a sadist.’
1992	As I looked at her, I thought of her shrinking, like someone in a fairytale, and how one day I might hold her in the palm of my hand with her little voice squeaking commands at me as if she was a mouse I'd picked up in the garden.
1991	When he was not ducking and weaving through the cedar brush with this curious hat on his head, Gould was sitting up at night on the Appletree Flats waiting to ambush a tawny-shouldered podargus or crouching next to a hole in the ground close to Stephen's garden gate waiting for the appearance of an unfamiliar little mouse.
1991	For example, the icons are usually addressed by inputs from a mouse rather than a keyboard and many of their operational facilities are controlled by pull-down menus.
1991	Although CDTV, like CD-I, attempts to disguise its computer origins, it comes with appropriate ports and connection interfaces to make it possible to add a keyboard or mouse, external floppy disc drives and other standard computer peripherals.
1992	The user specifies the option required by pointing the mouse to the icon and pressing a button on the mouse to activate that process.
1993	Pierre Chambon (Institut de Chimie Biologique, Strasbourg) described an ambitious set of experiments aimed at elucidating their role by knocking out each of the eight isoforms in separate lines of transgenic mice.
1993	Blaese and his colleagues have also shown that a mouse glioma can be completely ablated by treatment with acyclovir following a stereotactic implant of fibroblasts infected with a retrovirus copying the herpes virus gene for thymidine kinase.
1993	Mice immunized with two doses of such cells were protected against a subsequent lethal challenge with the tumour, and experiments in which the immunization is used to induce a response against an established tumour are under way.
1993	The idea that p53 may be an essential component of the apoptotic pathway suffered a set-back when it was found that mice without any p53 gene were viable.
1993	The two groups have repeated the work of Donehower and his colleagues and produced new strains of p53 knockout mice.
1993	Thymocytes from the knockout mice show a normal apoptotic response to treatment with glucocorticoids but are extraordinarily resistant to the induction of the process by radiation, both in vitro and in vivo .
1993	Moreover, the knock-out mice will allow a crucial examination of the p53 pathway in the induction of apoptosis in other tissues and in response to a wide range of different stimuli (including agents used in cancer chemotherapy).
1993	Both groups are able to show a clear effect of gene dosage; that is, cells from heterozygous mice which contain only copy of the p53 gene are slightly more resistant to radiation-induced apoptosis than are homozygous normal mice with two copies (which are highly sensitive), while the homozygous null mice with no active copies are highly resistant.
1985	Strictly speaking, small pets like fish, birds or mice might be carefully wrapped in plastic and disposed of with the normal waste collection but after spending a lifetime with a faithful companion an owner might be reluctant to part with a pet in this way.
0000	In yellow mice alleles for colour can be shown as Y for yellow fur (the dominant trait) and y for grey fur (the recessive trait).
0000	Those mice with the YY genotype died at birth concluding that the Y gene is lethal (and recessive) and y gene is non-lethal (and dominant).
0000	Its a cat and mouse game.
0000	IF MICKEY ROURKE, ROXY, ROBERT DE NIRO Prince and the mice on Bagpuss are your scene, do what your never done before.
1989	If you have bulbs or sweet pea seeds in a frame buy a "safe" mouse bait like ICI Mouser to kill mice but not birds or pets.
1989	After all, it has already been done on animals like mice and sheep.
0000	Experiences with leishmania vaccines: from mice to men Immunological control of livestock parasites Parasite vaccines versus anti-parasite drugs; rivals or running mates?
0000	Save almost £500 on a complete 386SX Package Six High-Spec PC Systems New in this issue Windows 3.0 and Mouse Free with every 386 and 486 system New 486 Machine wins PCW Award Novell Networks — complete, and ready to run Plus Printers, software, accessories — at discount prices
0000	You may have seen in the press that we're including free Microsoft Windows 3.0 and mouse with every 386 and 486 we offer.
0000	It includes a 386 SX PC, Windows 3.0 and MS-DOS 4.01 ready-loaded, a mouse, laser-quality printer plus your choice of applications software.
0000	Whichever version you choose, your 316s comes ready-loaded with DOS 4.01 and 2 MB RAM (double the normal RAM, and expandable to 4 MB), plus a mouse.
1993	Endocrinology: Researchers have also been studying how thyroxine-deficient mouse model has been produced using transgenic ablation.
1993	Thyroxine and GH responsive genes are beingcharacterised in the new model and in GH-deficient dwarf mice in order to gain an insight into the mechanisms governing sexual dimorphic liver gene expression.
1993	Embryology and Differentiation: The CGR's focus here is the understanding of the cellular and genetic mechanisms underlying germ layer formation in the early mouse embryo.
1993	We are also constructing cDNA libraries from early embryonic tissues and have developed a wholemount in situ hybridisation technique for localising RNA in the mouse embryo.
1991	A chicken farmer in Norfolk had the front of his house sprayed with liquid manure and a pharmaceutical laboratory was broken into in South Wales and about fifty white mice released.’
1993	It wouldn't wake a mouse.
1989	They were the classic female twosome, mouse and minx.
1989	He remembered a Chinese fable Ellen had once told him about a man who falls off a cliff, saves himself by clutching at a plant, and then notices that two mice are gnawing away the branch on which his life depends.
1989	‘How did the mice come to be halfway down a cliff in the first place?’ he had asked her.
1989	And although the bureaucratic mice were invisibly at work, he still went through the motions of shifting hands and improving his grip on the branch.
1989	For example, the mice stop gnawing, scamper down your arm, cock their legs and piss in your face.
1992	Moodie, more like a mouse than ever, nibbled at a bit of cheese.
1992	‘You know the Douglas motto —‘Better to hear the lark sing in the woods and fields than the mouse squeak in the corridors and chambers of the castle.’’
0000	Briefly, antigen strips preincubated for one hour in blocking buffer (5% non-fat milk powder in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2, containing 0.05% Tween 20) were incubated overnight at room temperature in serum samples (diluted 1:100 v/v in blocking buffer) or mouse monoclonal antibody GL2 that recognises Giardia heat shock antigen (diluted 1:1000 v/v in blocking buffer).
0000	After four washes in phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2, containing 0.05% Tween 20, the strips were individually incubated in appropriate peroxidase conjugated anti-human IgM, IgG, or IgA or anti mouse IgG and developed.
0000	Experimental infection in mice confirms the appearance of anti Giardia sIgA and IgG in intestinal secretions and clearance of the parasite relates closely to rising concentrations of these antibodies in intestinal fluid.
0000	In an acute experimental model of gut derived systemic endotoxaemia in mice, produced by simultaneous intravenous injection of serotonin and intragastric instillation of endotoxin, they found bentonite (hydrated aluminium silicate: 75 mg), kaopectate (150 mg), and charcoal (25 mg) to be effective in reducing endotoxaemia.
0000	This has been attempted with some success using the gene for human factor IX, though synthesis continues for only a short time, and immune response in the mouse receipients proved a problem.
0000	Gap junctions in surface mucous cells of the normal gastric mucosa have been demonstrated in animals, including rats and mice, but their relation to gastric mucosal injury has not been reported.
0000	Preincubation of neutrophils with a mouse monoclonal (IgG1 k ) anti myeloperoxidase (Dr D Y Mason, University of Oxford) did not affect the staining of PSC sera.
0000	Subsequent sections were stained by indirect immunoperoxidase techniques using overnight incubation at 4°C of the following primary antisera:(1) mouse monoclonal antileucocyte common antigen (CD45 Dako, High Wycombe, UK), was used to identify total lymphocyte numbers;(2) rabbit antihuman class II major histocompatibility complex (a gift from Dr J J Neefjes, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and (3) sheep antihuman interferon-gamma (a gift from Dr K Cantell, Helsinki, Finland).
0000	The following secondary antisera were used in the indirect techniques: peroxidase conjugated swine antirabbit immunoglobulin (dilution 1:50, Dako, High Wycombe, UK), peroxidase conjugated swine antisheep immunoglobulins (dilution 1:100, Serotec, Oxford, UK) and peroxidase conjugated rabbit anti mouse immunoglobulins (dilution 1:50, Dako).
0000	In addition others have shown in mice that a high proportion of mucosal lymphocytes produce cytokines such as γ-interferon and interleukin 5 in vitro.
0000	Nevertheless, CD8+ T cells from mouse intestine can produce significant amounts of γ-interferon in vitro, emphasising the need to determine the phenotype of γ-interferon producing lymphocytes directly.
0000	Tumour necrosis factor α and α/; Β interferon are enteropathic in mice, while mucosal tumour necrosis factor α production is increased in Crohn's disease.
0000	Each section was treated with a drop of primary antibody (mouse anti-human Brd Urd, Dako, High Wycombe; 1:20 dilution in PBS).
0000	Immunocytochemistry was carried out on paraffin embedded tissue sections, using the following antibodies:(a) a rabbit antihuman lysozyme antiserum (DAKO) and (b) a mouse antihuman monoclonal antibody KP1 (kindly provided by Dr D Y Mason), detecting a formalin resistant epitope of the CD68 cluster, a highly glycosylated intracellular protein expressed by most tissue macrophages.
0000	Preparations were incubated with the primary antibody for 60 minutes, rinsed in Tris buffered saline and then incubated with the secondary antibody (mouse anti-rabbit, diluted in Tris buffered saline/normal human serum) for 30 minutes.
0000	A comparable phenomenon has been described in a transgenic mouse model which produces long segments of HBsAg including pre S 1 proteins and which eventually develops distorted ground glass hepatocytes very similar to thsoe in the present liver transplant recipients.
0000	In the transgenic mouse model, hepatocellular damage, including multinodular regenerative hyperplasia, raised transaminase activities and eventual tumour formation have been described.
0000	Studies in mice showed that immunological sensitisation to gliadin does not trigger the development of a T cell mediated lesion of the intestine when the diet contains gluten.
0000	In patients with blood group A, circulating anti-B antibody will bind to B antigen in the liver and lead to decreased detection of this epitope by the mouse anti-B antibody.
1992	Gastrin-17 and pentagastrin given exogenously, as well as surgical procedures leading to endogenous hypergastrinaemia, have been reported to stimulate growth of the exocrine pancreas in mice and rats.
1992	Collaborative Research mouse EGF (tissue culture grade) was obtained from Universal Biologicals, London, UK.
1992	Additionally, 100% tumorigenicity in nude mice was seen.
1992	This study shows the transfection of HPV DNA from colonic cancers into NIH3T3 mouse cells and suggests that HPV type 16 might be associated with the malignant transformation of colonic cells.
1992	To show the presence of human genes in mouse cells, the filters were hybridised with a human DNA marker, Alu family sequences, with specific activity ranging 2×10 8 to 2×10 9 cpm/µg in high stringency conditions, then washed several times at 55°C, and finally exposed to an x ray film by an autoradiographic method at -70°C.
1992	Transformed cells were subcutaneously injected into bilateral flanks of six adult female BALB/c nude mice.
1992	The tumorigenecity of CC-M2T in nude mice was 100% (6/6).
1992	To idendity the HPV transfection of human tumour cell lines to normal mouse cells, we have shown the Alu sequences of human DNA marker in the genome of NIH3T3 transformants, although CC-M2 was the only cell line that transfected successfully.
1992	Our transfection rate was higher compared with previous reports Perucho et al have shown that only five of 21 human tumour cell lines contain a gene or genes capable of transforming mouse cells.
1992	Interestingly, in our study, all type II foci of CC-M2T cells contained HPV DNA sequences and showed a 100% (6/6) tumorigenecity in nude mice.
1992	The tumour cells grown from nude mice were also found to have HPV DNA sequences (unpublished data).
1992	In conclusion, the HPV DNA of colonic cancer cells can integrate and induce neogrowth in mouse cells.
1992	Complimentary studies are now necessary to examine the effect of exogenously administered TGF α on the growth of the cell lines studied by the group of Kork et al when these cells are inoculated as xenografts into nude mice.
1992	Mice expressing the Min trait (multiple intestinal neoplasia) develop large numbers of adenomas in the small and large bowel and are susceptible to gastrointestinal cancer.
1992	After being washed in PBS (twice for five minutes), the slides were incubated overnight with mouse monoclonal antibody against BrdU (Amersham, Braundschweig, Germany) at 4°C in a humid chamber.
1992	After the sections had been washed in PBS, a mouse monoclonal antibody against PCNA (IgM isotype, clone 19A2; Camon, Wiesbaden, Germany) was applied and incubated overnight at 4°C in a humid chamber.
1992	Briefly, microwells were coated with intact mouse laminin, type IV collagen, human serum fibronectin, or bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 90 minutes at 36°C and washed once with PBS.
1992	Isolates were maintained in vitro for four days then grafted in combination with fetal mesenchyme, to the renal subcapsular space of adult nude mice.
1992	Sections were immunostained with mouse anti-BrdUrd antibody (Becton-Dickinson) at a dilution of 1 in 400, visualised with diaminobenzidine, and counterstained with Myer's haematoxylin.
1992	It has been accidently transferred from animals to man and has been experimentally transmitted from man to calves and mice.
1992	There is a new model of chronic duodenal ulcer in which the ulcer is generated by irradiating the lower mediastinum of mice with a single dose of 18 Gy 250 kV x rays.
1992	Ulcers were found by chance during an experiment on ulcerative oesophagitis after thoracic irradiation in the mouse.
1992	Because the duodenal ulcer is generated in mice as an abscopal effect of irradiation we call it the ‘abscopal ulcer.’
1992	Animals were female CFLP mice aged 20–35 weeks, weighing 25–40 g, and obtained from InterFauna UK.
1992	Control mice (C) were anaesthetised and placed in the irradiation jig but were completely shielded.
1992	Mice receiving lower mediastinal irradiation (L) were given the same dose of radiation to the same sized but adjacent field (T5-T10).
1992	Since U never leads to ulceration this group of mice was used as irradiated controls.
1992	Effects seen in the L mice, the ulcer group, could, therefore, be differentiated from any non-specific effects of thoracic irradiation.
1992	Measurements of gastric secretion were performed on fasted animals (food and bedding removed overnight) but the mice were allowed tap water freely.
1992	Anaesthetised mice were placed supine on cork boards and steadied by elastic bands around the four limbs.
1992	For the initial experiment, at day 7, 70 mice were randomly allocated to one of three groups.
1992	Allocation was weighted so that there were 30 controls in order to form a solid baseline and 20 mice each irradiated to the upper or lower mediastinum.
1992	For the second series, at day 3, 45 mice were randomly allocated with even weighting so that there were 15 in each group.
1992	Results from 27 controls (C), 17 irradiated controls (U), and 19 ulcer group (L) mice were available for analysis from the first (day 7) series and 15 C, 14 U, and 15 L animals from the second (day 3) series.
1992	An incidental byproduct of these studies has been the establishment of a reliable way of measuring several variables of gastric secretion in both the basal and stimulated states in the intact mouse.
1992	The mouse has the advantage over the rat in having a 10 fold smaller body volume — thus less substance is needed for each set of measurements.
1992	Spontaneous gastric ulcers occur in genetically mast cell depleted mice and duodenal ulcer can occur spontaneously in autoimmune mice, but the physiological situation is not normal in either case and nor are these suitable comparisons with human ulcers.
1992	Eyssen et al , Huijghebaert et al , and Pacini et al previously confirmed the absence of bacterial desulphating activity on 7-monosulphate esters of bile acids but the presence of such desulphatng activity on 3-monosulphate esters in cultures of faeces from humans, rats, and mice.
1992	The missions became deadly games of cat and mouse as they penetrated further into DEEP territory.
1992	For example, the ‘flitting bats’ or the crowing of the ‘night fowl’and also the small sounds of a fly which ‘sung in the pain’and the shriek of a mouse.
1993	He bred mice, and every generation he chopped their tails off, and then bred from the tailless mice for dozens of generations, and of course, they were still being born with tails.
1993	For example, if given a choice, between mating with a near relative, and mating with a non-relative, a mouse will choose the non-relative.
1990	One of the Poles held a rat head with two dragonflies, the other a seagull and two mice.
1990	I was just sticking one of the mouse heads back on when the birds went up into the evening air, kaw-calling and screaming, wheeling over the path through the dunes where it went near their nests.
1990	After the Tale of Old Saul I put the catapult to another use, and it became the Killer; scourge of hamsters, mice and gerbils.
1990	The severed heads of gulls, rabbits, crows, mice, owls, moles and small lizards looked down on me.
1990	The Bomb Circle, my dad's leg and his stick, his reluctance to get me a motorbike perhaps, the candles in the skull, the legions of dead mice and hamsters — they're all the fault of Agnes, my father's second wife and my mother.
1990	As for the little animals, the gerbils, white mice and hamsters, they had to die their muddy little ploppy deaths so that I could get to the Skull of Old Saul.
1983	The wealthier classes might have stone-built barns, which could protect their supplies, but houses built of timber and mud, and with earth floors, would be very damp, so it would be hard to protect grains both from rotting and from the depredations of rats and mice.
1989	He had a way of looking at people as though they amused him, just like you might look at the antics of white mice in a cage.
1992	Balb c mice that had been maintained on a gluten free diet for many generations in order to overcome oral tolerance to gliadin, were primed subcutaneously with 0.1 ml of BCG, vaccine.
1992	Two, 4, and 6 weeks later, the mice were injected with 30 µg of the synthetic peptide conjugate in Freund's adjuvant.
1992	Non-immunised mice on a gluten free diet served as controls.
1992	Two mice immunised with the synthetic peptide conjugate showed serum titres to whole gliadin of 1:6400 and 1:12800 compared with a titre of 1:800 for a non-immunised mouse.
1992	The mouse with the highest titre was used.
1992	HBsAg was detected by indirect immunofluorescence using mouse monoclonal antibody against the ‘a’ epitope of HBsAg (Chemicon, Temecula, CA, USA).
1992	Pre-S1 and pre-S2 were detected by indirect immunofluorescence using mouse monoclonal antibodies against pre-S1 and pre-S2, respectively, followed by FITC-conjugated rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulin G (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories, West Grove, Pennsylvania, USA).
1992	Histamine given locally at the subcutaneous implantation site of the tumour (1 mg/kg/day) increased the growth of MKN45G xenografts in nude mice.
1992	MKN45G xenografts were started in male nude mice (Harlan-Olac, Bicester, UK)(weight 35 g, age 8–10 weeks) by a subcutaneous injection of 10 7 cells (in a 200 µl volume of sterile phosphate buffered saline (PBS)) into the left hand flank.
1992	The mice were injected daily from day 0 until the experiment was finished.
1992	The dose in the water was calculated from the observation that a 35 g mouse drank 6 ml of water day -1 .
1992	Effect of histamine on the basal growth of MKN45G xenograft in nude mice
1992	Four groups of five nude mice were grafted with MKN45G xenograft tissue and treated with PBS the histamine diluent, 0.1, 1, and 10 mgkg -1 day -1 histamine, locally at the site of the xenograft (Fig 3).
1992	Four groups of five nude mice were grafted with MKN45G xenograft tissue and treated with either PBS or histamine at a single concentration of 1 mgkg -1 day -1 , locally at the tumour site.
1992	When given locally, in vitro, histamine increased the proliferation of grafted MKN45G tumour tissue in nude mice.
1992	Cimetidine slowed the metastatic development and increased the survival in mice with the Lewis lung carcinoma, 3LL despite the tumour having no histamine 2 receptor.
1992	In a second study by Gifford et al , cimetidine had a protective effect in mice implanted with two different syngeneic tumours; lymphoid ascitic cells and a fibrosarcoma despite the cells being unaffected by the agent in vitro.
1992	In this study, nude mice were used that do not possess mature T lymphocytes but do have natural killer cell activity.
1992	To find out if inhibition of the proliferative effects of histamine also occurred by cimetidine blockade of histamine 2 receptor, the experiment will need to be repeated with animals that are further immune depleted such as severe combine immune deficiency mice or with nude mice treated with anti-asialo GM1 antiserum, which is known to eliminate natural killer activity in nude mice.
1992	A combination of cimetidine or ranitidine and histamine has been reported to increase survival in tumour bearing mice when compared with histamine 2 receptor antagonist and histamine only controls.
1992	In this study, when only histamine was given to nude mice, increased vascular permeability mediated by intercation with histamine 1 receptor may have led to an enhancement of xenograft growth due to increased diffusion of nutrents etc, in addition to direct proliferative effects by a histamine 2 receptor.
1992	Gastric mucosal proliferation has been characterised in animals using tritiated thymidine, including the mouse and dog.
1992	This was followed by washing with phospate buffered saline and the addition of the secondary antibody (rabbit anti rat peroxidase, Dako, High Wycombe, Bucks) 1 in 100 in 10% normal mouse serum for 1 hour at 20°C.
1992	It is interesting to note that the PGC gene was localised to human chromosome 6p21.1-pter by analysis of mouse x human somatic cell hybrids.
1992	The second antibodies were raised in goat and swine respectively (Sigma, Poole) and complemented with rabbit and mouse peroxidase antiperoxidase complexes (Sigma).
1992	Intracerebroventricular 5HT inhibited propulsive motility in the mouse colon; by contrast, ip 5HT stimulated propulsion of a glass bead through the colon.
1992	The concentration of pancreatic (group I) PLA2 (pan-PLA2) in serum was measured by a time resolved fluoroimmunoassay with a monoclonal (mouse) antibody raised against human pancreatic PLA2.
1992	After removal of unbound primary antibody, the sections were incubated with monoclonal mouse anti-rabbit immunoglobulin (1/100, Dako) for 30 minutes at room temperature before the application of rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulin and APAAP complex.
1992	CB0006, an IgG1 purified mouse monoclonal antibody to human TNF α (a kind gift from Celltech Ltd, UK) was used throughout (dilution 1/100).
1993	Many animal species have evidence of past legionella infection but mice, unless immunocompromised, are extremely resistant to it.
1993	The Centers for Disease Control now reports evidence of hantavirus infection in 12 out of 42 deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) trapped around the homes of infected people, which suggests that this illness may have a rodent vector.
1993	The second class of superantigens has been clearly defined only in the mouse.
1993	A group of antigens capable of stimulating a strong mixed lymphocyte reaction between mice of the same MHC haplotype was recognised some time ago, and these were termed minor lymphocyte stimulating (Mls) determinants.
1993	We now know that Mls determinants are proteins encoded by genes of mouse mammary tumour viruses integrated and vertically transmitted in the mouse genome — in effect they are self-antigens, and as with any self-antigen encountered by T cells during their maturation in the thymus, T cells that react with Mls determinants are clonally eliminated in their early development with consequent ‘skewing’ of the animal's V T-cell repertoire.
1993	An interesting consequence of this process is that the mice are then resistant to infection with exogenous mammary tumour viruses.
1993	No human equivalent of the endogenous mouse retroviral superantigens has yet been described.
1993	A patentable invention could relate to a new piece of computer hardware such as a new mouse, new type of output device such as a more efficient flat screen or new form of storage medium or it could be a new way of making integrated circuits or flat screens.
1993	The use of concept keyboard touch screens, or use of a "mouse" rather than the computer keyboard, has opened up many exciting possibilities.
1992	It has been suggested (Dixon 1984: 586) that the omission of to here "may just be an irregularity with a diachronic explanation — like the plural of mouse being mice — that has simply to be learnt by users" .
1992	The entire house was infested with mice which meant that everybody was in constant battle against their droppings and their smell.
1992	Needless to say the mice won…
1992	Still, overall we thought ourselves lucky because a lot of other houses in the street had rats as well as mice, which was much worse because at least mice don't bite or nibble at human feet…
1990	Connor told Ken that looking at him was like ‘seeing a mouse in a bag of oats’.
1993	I am into the kitchen like a mouse slips in its hole.
1993	Two Yardies walk in — Danger Mouse Campbell and Sammy Dread Miller.
1992	My hands dart indignantly about my desk as if they were offended mice, opening files, annotating minutes, picking up the receiver.
1992	Its almost miraculous effectiveness in controlling and reversing an otherwise lethal bacterial infection in mice was demonstrated in Oxford in the 1940s.
1992	Finally, work in Oxford on a strain of diabetic mouse is beginning to reveal the genes that govern susceptibility to the disease.
1992	As the genes in question appear to work in the same way in mice and people it should be possible to develop ways of detecting the genes in people at risk and discovering methods of implanting cells with the normal genes or blocking the action of the defective genes.
1992	Very recently it has been shown that treating prediabetic mice (that is, before they develop symptoms) with various chemical agents, including insulin, will prevent diabetes from developing.
1992	The drug cyclosporin was then shown to be a particular effective immunosuppressive agent as a result of extensive experiments on mice, rats, dogs and pigs.
1992	The great majority of animals used in experiments are mice and rats and this is likely to continue.
1992	Their concern was over dietary intake of the plasticiser di-2-XXXX ethylhexyl (DEHA) used in PVC cling film and known to cause cancer in laboratory mice.
1992	Its population mirrors that of its prey species — mice, voles and other small mammals.
1992	Among those threatened are the arctic fox, lynx, wolf, northern brown bear, oak mouse, European otter and ringed seal, together with a number of insects, birds and plants.
1992	Opponents of genetic engineering have resumed campaigning against the practice in the US, following the granting by the US patent office of three patents for transgenic mice"the first patents granted on genetically altered animals since 1988.
1992	Laboratory mice died within minutes of being fed the shellfish.
1992	The mice showed symptoms of poisoning by the Alexandrium toxins produced by phytoplankton, but comparisons with known Alexandrium toxins proved negative.
1986	There is a pouched mouse in Australia, though in this case the resemblance is not so close and it does not make its living in quite the same way.
1986	Any competent bush mouse, not to mention man or elephant, can step aside and contemplate the whole grass-roots frenzy at leisure, an object less of menace than of strangeness and wonder, the culmination of an evolutionary story as different from that of mammals as it is possible to conceive in this world.
1961	Probably were mice, anyway, thought Sara and switched on her radio very loud.
1989	But my bit had yet to come; I had no idea if we had sustained damage to the undercarriage, although we had three greens burning bright, I motored in as if to land on new-laid eggs; all the crew, including Jock the engineer, were at crash stations and we landed "soft as a mouse's instep" , as Spike used to say.
1990	The judge had warned the jury not to award "Mickey Mouse money" , by which he apparently intended to refer to a sum so large as to be unrealistic (such as 1.5 million).
1993	While foot-based metre(s) do display promotion, they are typically "heavier" lines, and such heaviness shows itself in the high degree of demotion (e.g. of lexical monosyllables — blind in three blind mice) and subordination within the line.
1982	I mean we did a lot of things that other people probably didn't do, I always remember next door to us at one time the curate of the St Mary's church, er, who is er, he is now Bishop of  mm, gosh, he's a up in Nottingham way, Bishop of something or other, we met him at a, at a do not so very long ago and he's just the same, he's marvellous and he was the curate and they were as poor as church mice and er in relation to them we were really well off you know, and er they had hardly any fires or anything and we gave them an electric fire to heat their place up and er  when we met him, it was last February at a, a do of one of the research engineers from where I was work working the last job I had and er, he said I've still got the electric fire
0000	D E C I M A L   And then  well you're still in that  put your mouse on there.
1993	Mr   first laid plans of mice and men  is one page missing  as it is only twenty five metres away and I shall have it shortly.
1994	Erm even tapestries like the Devonshire hunting tapestry which you may have seen at the V and A. Er the tops look as if they're been eaten by mice because they're been so often snagged onto tenterhooks and moved and moved round and onto other tenterhooks, they just don't seem to have had the same view of this kind of thing as we do.
1988	Infection is by ingestion of the L2 in the egg or as larvae in the tissues of mice and subsequent development takes place entirely in the wall and lumen of the intestine, there being no migratory phase.
1991	‘Ah, but when the cat's away the mice will play.
1991	‘I'll tell you anyway —‘When the cat's away, the mice will play.’'
1991	As I said the morning of Peter's departure, when the cat's away the mice will play.
1992	Liz and her husband are as poor as church mice.
1992	They ranged from a tiny mouse, with lifelike whiskers and a twitchy nose, to a metre-high Pied Piper, whose grin was so wickedly triumphant that she almost expected to see the children of Hamlin following behind.
1991	If he did, he was in an enviable position to play cat and mouse with her for the duration of their stay.
1993	‘And while the cat is away the mouse will play —’
1993	A cat showing a mouse a bit of cheese to see what reaction he could get.
1991	‘I was hoping for platinum-blonde, or red, but now it's dry I find it's plain old mouse.’
1991	‘I wouldn't have said mouse, precisely.
1991	She waited until the news summary at nine o'clock, but, when there was no mention of a missing female person, eyes dark, hair mouse, she returned to Jane Austen's Emma for consolation.
1993	Then there are chinchillas and ferrets, which no doubt you often inject against TB and distemper, and over there we've rats, mice, gerbils and chipmunks.’
1992	He thought police were playing some elaborate game of cat and mouse and waiting to trap him.
1992	Tests carried out on mice have been encouraging.
1992	Tests have already been carried out on mice in Cambridge.
1992	They found that by introducing a normal gene to substitute the defective one, the mice recovered from the illness.
1993	Hundreds of police spent their bank holiday weekend playing cat and mouse with travellers.
1993	It worked on mice and if it works on humans it will be just what we've been waiting for.
1993	I liked the bit where the mice made the cloak
1993	For the rest of the hunting season, the saboteurs will play a cat and mouse game with the huntsmen.
1993	It's believed the protests were against the breeding of rats and mice for experiments.
1993	It's believed the protests were against the breeding of rats and mice for experiments.
1993	I've been doing this for twenty five years so the best deal I've ever done is the sale I make each week which brings me three hundred quidHe later went onto spend over five hundred pounds on a Mickey Mouse Toy.
0000	When they took him to Florida, he wasn't so bothered about Mickey Mouse.
0000	The cat may have been away but the mice certainly did not play in this TNT Gold Cup game at sunny Windsor.
0000	So come on and start making these ‘Mickey Mouse’ cups a bit of a spectacle instead of the atmosphere void of Windsor Park.
0000	The non-poisonous snake, which is worth about £100, is orange and tan with dark triangular markings and lives on dead mice.
0000	PEST control officers from Montgomeryshire District Council dealt with 41 complaints of rats and 24 of mice at properties within the district during March and April.
0000	What is the difference between Everton Football Club and Mickey Mouse?
0000	Mickey Mouse stayed in Europe longer!
0000	What is the difference between Everton Football Club and Mickey Mouse?
0000	Mickey Mouse stayed in Europe longer!
0000	ENGLAND entered the realm of Disneyland with the defeat that has turned Graham Taylor into a Mickey Mouse figure.
0000	Cat and mouse game for TV rivals
0000	ECHO chief photographer Stephen Shakeshaft found himself in the middle of a real cat and mouse game right in the heart of the city as he caught up with cartoon characters Tom and Jerry.
0000	What is the difference between Everton Football Club and Mickey Mouse?
0000	Mickey Mouse stayed in Europe longer!
0000	The undoubted star for children is the gold mechanical mouse of c1810 in the ‘Cabinet of Curiosities’ in room 15 (although some will need lifting up to see it).
0000	Over in France somewhere they are dancing Yankee Doodle Dandy with Mickey Mouse and the gang in the new Euro Disney.
0000	For all the kids care he could be Goofy, hamming it up for Mickey Mouse.
0000	John and Josephine Bowes had a penchant for collecting the bizarre and unusual — from a beast with two heads to a mechanical mouse.
0000	Star attraction in a cabinet of curiosities in Room 15 is a mechanical mouse manufactured in either London or Switzerland and bought by Josephine in 1871 for £22.
0000	Mrs Baines, 54, who represented the Darlington Gala Club, won the cup and £100 after she tossed her pancake 62 times in the competition in which she had dressed up as Minnie Mouse.
0000	Michelle Dixon had claimed she was sacked from the massive Trees Park Village home in Middleton St George near Darlington after expressing concern over allegations of mice and cockroaches on the premises.
0000	Miss Dixon, of Haxby Road, Middleton St George, claimed she had merely given moral support to a colleague who rang Darlington Health Authority for advice on mice and cockroaches seen in the corridors.
0000	Over 35,000 plant species were carefully screened for anti-cancer properties, and yew bark extract was found to be effective against tumours in mice.
0000	But a few hundred enthusiasts were all that was needed to make these dirty little flying mice a protected species, free to flit and, well, leave droppings, wherever it takes their fancy under the 1981 Wildlife and Countryside Act.
0000	He criticises their lack of any real depth of Gaelic culture, and with the exception of Machair, which has got off to an excellent start, all the other programmes seem to be shallow or merely ‘Mickey Mouse’.
0000	Regarding your editorial today, ‘Holy bat-poo’, first, bats are not ‘dirty little flying mice’.
0000	Given that there does not seem to be the same reluctance to imbibe proteins made from plants as there is to be using the proteins in the milk of Dr Ron James' transgenic sheep or Scotgen's ‘humanised’ mouse antibodies, there may be a good case for a local entrepreneur to transfer an Amazonian shaman's technology to make a Scottish national wonder drug.
0000	The first set was consistently impressive, with electrifying solos from saxophonist Phil Bancroft and pianist Brian Kellock on Cat and Mouse, and from Bancroft again and trumpeter Paul Jayasinha on Pieology.
0000	Mr Wilkie will shortly be receiving an AST 3/335 Bravo personal computer with 4Mb Ram, 80Mb hard disk drive, 14 in colour monitor, Dos, Windows and a mouse, which has been supplied by 20/20 Systems of Cowdenbeath and AST Europe.
0000	They are testing a genetic spray which can cure the disease in mice.
0000	They announced yesterday that their treatment also eliminates the genetic defect in laboratory mice, bred with cystic fibrosis.
0000	It involves injecting the substance into the mice's lungs, a treatment which could not be used on humans.
0000	However, he said the spray being tested on the Edinburgh mice could be used on humans as it was a non-invasive treatment which did not involve surgery or injections.
0000	‘What we are working on is a mist which the mice breath in as opposed to pouring the complex into the trachea.
0000	Dr Porteous added that gene therapy testing had been made possible by the genetically-engineered mice developed by the MRC team last year.
0000	The mouse is bred with the genetic defect but remains alive, enabling potential cures to be tested out on it.
0000	Dog towels with dog and paw motif; your cat's own mouse den, a delightfully snug bed; a waxed jacket for the dog which has everything; a plastic holder with carpet insert to encourage your cat to keep its claws off the furniture.
1993	Furthermore the hapten-binding particles were able to transfer the neo gene and the antibody-envelope fusion gene to mouse fibroblasts.
1993	This indicates that the virus particles bind specifically to hapten, are infectious and can package a marker gene for transfer into mouse fibroblasts.
1993	Undifferentiated (UF9) and differentiated (DF9) mouse F9 embryonal carcinoma cells were maintained as monolayers in 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) on standard tissue culture dishes coated with 0.1% gelatin ∼300 bloom from porcine skin (Sigma G-2500).
1993	For the zoo blot of Figure 3, some DNAs were obtained from cell lines: human (4502), chimpanzee (GM03452; NIGMS, Camden), orangutan (EB185(JC)); ECACC, Porton Down), African green monkey (CV-1), dog (MDCK) and mouse (Rag).
1993	For example, mouse chromosome 17 contains a cluster of at least five ZNF genes in a region of approximately 500 kb (47; P.Little, personal communication).
1993	The SSRP family includes the mouse protein T160, which recognizes recombination signal sequences.
1993	Homologous sequences are seen in chimpanzee, rhesus monkey, elephant, pig, dog, rabbit (which is underloaded), mouse, opossum, chicken, salmon (somewhat degraded), and Drosophila melanogaster .
1993	There is a large continuous open reading frame which predicts a 723 amino acid protein of molecular mass 81,524 daltons, and which shows extensive homology to human SSRP1 and the mouse T160 protein.
1993	There is an in-frame stop codon upstream from the first AUG codon of the open reading frame and this start site is conserved in the human (11) and mouse (22) homologs.
1993	Comparison of human, mouse, and fly SSRP sequences
1993	An optimal alignment, shown in Figure 2, of human SSRP1, mouse T160, and the Drosophila homolog described here reveals that these three proteins are closely related.
1993	Interestingly, serine rich regions near the HMG-box and those at the C-terminus of the protein, conserved in human and mouse homologs, are not present in the Drosophila protein.
1993	Although the mouse homolog T160 is tightly linked to the recombination activator genes RAG-1 and RAG-2, and expressed fusion proteins show specificity for binding in DNA sequences that act as recombination signals for V-(D)-J joining, recombinase activity has not been demonstrated (22).
1993	Deletion clones in the mouse homolog T160 (22) and in rat HMG1 (35) have delineated the HMG-box region alone to be sufficient for interaction and binding to DNA.
1993	The fact that the DNA sequences used to clone the mouse homolog T160 are proposed to form stem-loop structures (44, 45) is fully consistent with shape-selective recognition.
1993	Optimal alignment, with gaps, of the predicted protein sequences of human SSRP1 and its mouse and Drosophila homologs.
1993	To determine whether the Ea DH groups I-V define a functionally important chromatin domain or locus control region (LCR), we have used wild type Ea d gene constructs to generate transgenic mouse lines from strains that do not express an endogenous Ea gene product.
1993	We show that position-independent, copy number-dependent expression of the Ea d gene occurs only with the Long construct (8/8 transgenic mouse lines, over a range of copy numbers, 1-30 copies); in contrast, the Short constructs are subject to position-dependent effects.
1993	The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is a polymorphic multigene family encoding two classes of cell surface glycoproteins class I and class II, and has been extensively studied in mice and humans.
1993	The mouse class II MHC region contains six genes (Ob-Ab-Aa-Eb1-Eb2-Ea) encoding two cell surface heterodimers (AαAβ and EαEβ) which are expressed on key components of the immune system, including B cells, dendritic cells and can be induced by γ-interferon on other antigen presenting cells, such as macrophages.
1993	Studies defining the immediate 5' flanking sequences of class II MHC genes and their associated DNA-binding proteins (5-10), as well as transgenic mouse models containing DNA constructs covering the promoter proximal sequences have been examined in detail by other groups (5,11-13,).
1993	In other systems, far upstream and/or downstream sequences of tissue-specific genes or gene families have been shown to be involved in position-independent, copy number-dependent expression of associated genes in transgenic mice.
1993	Therefore, it was important to reexamine the regulation of class II genes in transgenic mouse models, in order to determine whether far upstream regions were required for position-independent, copy number-dependent expression as in documented LCRs.
1993	The DH sites mapping within 20 kb upstream of the Ea gene (Ea DH I-V) were particularly suited to further analysis, as one of the earliest transgenic mouse models of immunologically important genes made use of inbred mouse strains (H-2 b or H-2 s haplotype) which do not express surface I-E due to a specific 650 bp deletion covering part of the Ea promoter and first exon, while Eb expression remained normal (27-29).
1993	We have made use of this model system and measured Ea mRNA abundance, in order to study the functional importance of the Ea upstream regions in transgenic mice.
1993	Transgenic mice
1993	Mouse cosmid 32.1 (BALB/c genomic library, H-2 d haplotype (33) was obtained from Dr M.Steinmetz.
1993	Oocytes were obtained from C57Bl/6 SJL F1; both these inbred mouse strains, have a deletion covering the promoter and part of the Ea exon 1 and therefore do not express their own endogenous Ea (27-29).
1993	Ea transgenic offspring were backcrossed to C57Bl/6 mice in order to establish inbred lines.
1993	All mice used in these experiments were either first or second backcross.
1993	All transgenic mice transmitted the transgene to their offspring, and all of the lines that were generated, also expressed the transgene.
1993	Two further Ea transgenic mice (Ea-16 and We32-25) were obtained from Drs.
1993	DNA from transgenic mice was digested with restriction enzymes and electrophoresed through agarose gels to determine the integrity of the construct as well as copy number.
1993	Under these conditions we detect a single band (3.6 kb Kpn I fragment) which is equivalent to the two dysfunctional endogenous host Ea genes, or a band at 4.2 kb in BALB/c mice.
1993	In Ea d transgenic mice, two bands are resolved, the endogenous copy plus the transgene, at 4.2 kb.
1993	Eb RNA expression was assumed to represent two copies of the Eb gene per genome, and was approximately constant as compared to β-actin for all transgenic mouse lines tested.
1993	All mice were normalised to BALB/c expression of Ea and Eb genes, representing two copies per genome, and Ea transgenes are expressed per gene copy per genome.
1993	Nuclei were isolated from cell lines or spleen from transgenic animals or inbred mouse strains.
1993	Wehi 231 is a mouse (BALB/c) B cell lymphoma line (45).
1993	Transgenic mice containing Long and Short Ea constructs
1993	Eight independent Ea d Long (Figure 1c) and two Ea d Short (Figure 1d) transgenic mice lines were generated (see Materials and methods).
1993	All Ea d transgenic mice lines were healthy and transmitted the Ea d transgene to their offspring.
1993	Both Long and Short constructs are expressed in transgenic mice
1993	We analysed ten, newly generated transgenic mouse lines, plus two pre-existing transgenic lines Ea-16 and We32-25 (30,36) for Ea transgene copy number and abundance of Ea RNA in spleen (Figure 2 and Table 1).
1993	Ea transgene copy number (Figure 2D) was determined by Southern blots of DNA derived from transgenic mice spleens, digested with the restriction enzyme Kpn I, and then hybridised using a DNA probe specific for the second exon of Ea.
1993	The ratio of Ea to β-actin was determined for all transgenic mice and compared to that of BALB/c (Figure 2B and 2C; Table 1).
1993	Eb abundance in the spleen of all transgenic mice was equivalent to that in BALB/c and C57Bl/6 controls (data not shown, Table 1).
1993	The cell surface expression of the Eα d /Eβ b/s heterodimer, remained cnstant over the range of Ea copy-numbers, being equivalent to that seen in the control BALB/c mouse spleen (data not shown).
1993	All of the Ea transgenic mouse strains contained intact copies of the transgene construct, as shown by Southern blot analysis (data not shown, see Materials and methods), and were probably integrated in tandem.
1993	Transgenic mice containing the Short construct show position-integration effects at higher copy numbers and are therefore not under complete or appropriate control.
1993	Where the Ea copy number and the abundance level match, position-independent, copy number-dependent expression has been achieved, with the level of expression per gene copy being directly equivalent to that in BALB/c mice.
1993	This is clearly the case for all transgenic mice containing the Long construct, showing a copy number-dependent expression over the range of 1 to 30 copies.
1993	The Ea expression level obtained with the Long construct mice approaches the actual ratio of that seen in BALB/c mice of one times the expression level per genomic copy of the Ea d gene.
1993	In contrast, the expression level observed with the Short construct mice deviates markedly from the expected ratio and position effects are present above five copies/genome.
1993	Copy number-dependent DNase I hypersensitive sites are maintained in transgenic mice
1993	If the DH sites of the integrated transgenes were of functional use they should be maintained in an appropriate copy-number dependent fashion in transgenic mice.
1993	Figure 4A and 4B show DNase I hypersensitive assays performed on BALB/c and transgenic mice spleens as well as a BALB/c B cell line, Wehi 231, using approximately equal number of nuclei (Figure 4C).
1993	PhosphorImager analysis of Southern blots showed that all of the Ea DH sites had been reestablished in the Long 12 mouse (see figure legend to Figure 4C).
1993	We have shown in this paper that position-independent, copy number-dependent expression of the Ea gene in transgenic mice, requires far upstream regions containing five DNase I Hypersensitive sites (DH I-V).
1993	This is the first time that strict position-independent, copy number-dependent expression has been shown for a mouse gene in a transgenic mouse model, and these mice now provide a source of a stably-integrated transgene of immunological importance.
1993	By definition, any DNA sequence/region that does not permit position-independent, copy number-dependent expression of a linked gene in all transgenic mice, is not an LCR.
1993	We therefore, compared 12 independently derived mouse lines; including 8 Longs, 2 Shorts (Figure 1), as well as the previously described Ea-16 and We32-25 (30,36), analysing their DNA and RNA quantitatively using a PhosphorImager.
1993	The position-dependent effects seen in Short transgenic mice were mentioned previously by other groups who reported that only 3/8 mice containing 2.0 kb 5' of Ea expressed the transgene at all(11).
1993	In addition, the exact Ea copy number of the transgenic mice from other groups is not known, and/or the number of mice tested was not large.
1993	However, based on the results reported in this paper, we can say that the position effect seen in the Short transgenic mice, is probably due to the absence of the upstream regions containing DH III-V.
1993	This also implies that the Eb message or protein is the limiting factor in the expression of the E α/; β heterodimer on the cell surface of these mice.
1993	The presence of these regulatory regions, stably integrated and of a known copy number among the Ea upstream regions, permits the transgenic mice described here to be used in the following studies.
1993	For these studies on early B cell ontogeny, the Long transgenic mice, particularly those with high copy numbers, could be used in recently described stromal/factor-dependent systems which give rise to non-transformed pre B/progenitor B cell lines (57-60).
1993	These transgenic mice are also of use in more classical immunological studies.
1993	In previous work, using Ea transgenic mice (Figure 1e,(47,63) or recombinant mice strains (64), the presence of AβEα mixed isotype molecules at the cell surface was shown.
1993	However, an upregulation of E molecules at the cell surface might be expected in mice with high levels of both Eb and Ea transgenes, as had been seen for Ab and Aa transgenes (68).
1993	Further, the homologies between mouse and human MHC complexes, suggest that equivalent regions may exist far upstream of the human equivalent to Ea (DRa).
1993	The transgenic mouse lines also provide a source for future studies on early developmental stages of the immune system.
1993	Whether these upstream regions contain other genes, or cis-acting, regulatory elements specific for class II Ea MHC and/or the entire class II MHC locus, they point the way for the analysis of other ‘interesting’ sites in both the mouse and human systems.
1993	Transgene copy number and expression in Ea transgenic mouse lines.
1993	Underneath the bar graph are listed the inbred mouse strains or transgenics from which the analysis was made.
1993	The ratio was normalised to the ratio Ea/β-actin seen in BALB/c mice.
1993	Reforming of DNase I hypersensitive sites in Long 12 transgenic mice in a copy number dependent fashion.
1993	DNase I hypersensitivity (DH) analysis was performed on nuclei isolated from Long 12 spleen, a high copy number transgenic mouse, and compared with DH sites present in the control BALB/c spleen and B cell line Wehi 231.
1993	Note that DH III and DH IV are seen in the BALB/c mouse but only upon longer exposures.
1993	Other Ea transgenic mice reported in the literature, contained constructs which were either of similar sizes to the constructs used in the present study:(31) d haplotype (c);(12, 30,) k haplotype (d) and (11, 13) d haplotype (d).
1993	Subcloning exon-amplification products obtained from a 140 kb mouse YAC has allowed the isolation of at least four clones detecting conserved sequences (7).
1993	The mutation responsible for α-amanitin resistence in a BALB/c 3T3 mouse cell line is an Asn to Asp change at position 793 in the largest subunit (47).
1993	The Zn-finger (according to(42)), and the position responsible for amanitin resistence (ama r ) in mouse (47) are also indicated.
1993	We have cloned and sequenced cDNAs encoding a novel mouse POU domain protein, Oct-11, that is closely related within the POU domain to the POU class II proteins, Oct-1 and Oct-2.
1993	The Oct-11 gene is expressed during mouse embryogenesis and in the adult thymus and testis.
1993	Several octamer binding proteins called Oct-1 to Oct-10, identified by distinct band shifts, have been reported to be present in various mouse tissues at different stages of development (17).
1993	A total of 205 N 2 progeny were obtained; a random subset of these N 2 mice were used to map the Oct-11 loci.
1993	In order to isolate cDNA clones representing the entirety of the Oct-11 mRNA, various mouse cDNA libraries were screened with a probe derived from the Oct-11 POU domain.
1993	Clones were found in a mouse thymus cDNA library, however.
1993	The expression of the POU class II genes was analysed using specific sets of PCR primers and first strand cDNA prepared from a variety of mouse tissues (Figure 4).
1993	Chromosomal localization of Oct-11 genes in the mouse
1993	Southern analysis of genomic DNA indicated that there are two Oct-11 genes in the mouse genome but only one in the rat (data not shown).
1993	The mouse chromosomal locations of the two murine Oct-11 genes were determined by interspecific backcross analysis using progeny derived from matings of [(C57BL/6J Mus spretus ) F 1 C57BL/6J]mice.
1993	Several Mus spretus -specific PstI RFLVs were identified and used to follow the segregation of the Oct-11 loci in backcross mice.
1993	The mapping results indicated that the two Oct-11 genes, which we have called Oct-11a and Oct-11b , are unlinked in the mouse genome.
1993	Oct-11a is located in the proximal region of mouse chromosome 9 linked to Ets-1, Thy-1 and Drd2 .
1993	Although 95 mice were analysed for every marker and are shown in the segregation analysis (see Figure 6a), up to 162 mice were typed for some markers.
1993	The ratios of the total number exhibiting recombinant chromosomes to the total number of mice analysed for each pair of loci and most likely order of gene order are: centromere —Ets-1 — 6/95 —Oct-11a — 3/99 —Thy-1 — 2/162 —Drd2 .
1993	Oct-11a is located in a region of mouse chromosome 9 homologous with the long arm of human chromosome 11.
1993	A 8.7 kb M.spretus -specific PstI RFLV was used to follow the segregation of the Oct-11b locus in backcross mice.
1993	The mapping results indicated that Oct-11b is located in the middle of mouse chromosome 1 tightly linked to Acrg, Bcl-2 and En-1 .
1993	Although 59 mice were analysed for every marker and are shown in the segregation analysis (Figure 6b), up to 127 mice were typed for markers.
1993	The ratios of the total number of mice exhibiting recombinant to the total number of mice analysed for each pair of loci and the most likely order are: centromere —Acrg — 1/77 —Oct-11b — 0/59 —Bcl-2 — 4/127 —En-1 .
1993	The fact that no recombination between Oct-11b and Bcl-2 was observed in 59 mice suggests the two loci reside within 5 cM (upper 95% confidence limit).
1993	It may be significant that the mouse Oct-1 homeodomain sequence is diverged at four positions compared with Xenopus , chicken and human Oct-1.
1993	Two antibody-secreting hybridomas derived from fusion of P3/NS with mouse spleen cells also express Oct-11 abundantly (data not shown).
1993	Two unlinked genes were found homologous to Oct-11 in the mouse genome in contrast to rats and humans which have only one (data not shown).
1993	These genes were mapped, using an interspecific backcross, to mouse chromosome 9 (Oct-11a ) and mouse chromosome 1 (Oct-11b ).
1993	The active gene,Oct-11a , is localized to part of mouse chromosome 9 syntenic with human chromosome 11q.
1993	All three members of the POU class-II gene family have now been mapped in the mouse.
1993	Interestingly these regions of the mouse genome are thought to be paralogous or ancestrally related (71).
1993	Abbreviations as follows: X-Oct-1,Xenopus laevis Oct-1 (42); C-Oct-11, chicken Oct-1 (43); H-Oct-1, human Oct-1 (19); M-Oct-2, mouse Oct-2a (29, 30, 46); H-Oct-2, human Oct-2a (3, 20, 21); M-Oct-11, mouse Oct-11.
1993	Northern blot analysis of Oct-11 and Oct-2 expression in various mouse tissues and cell lines.
1993	Chromosomal mapping of the mouse Oct-11 genes.
1993	The Oct-11a locus maps to mouse chromosome 9. b .
1993	The Oct-11b locus maps to mouse chromosome 1.
1993	Twenty one days post-infection, flies were dissected and infected salivary glands were injected into mice.
1993	Blood from mice which developed infections was passaged repeatedly through mice and then rats at 3 day intervals to increase virulence, before cloning in mice.
1993	This transformed trypanosome line, ST3, was then transmitted through tsetse flies and the resulting bloodstream forms cloned in mice.
1993	Therefore, trypanosomes were selected in vivo in mice.
1993	Preliminary experiments with control (AnTat1.3A) bloodstream forms, revealed that phleomycin would suppress parasitaemia, provided the initial inoculum was low (2.10 6 trypanosomes), and mice were treated daily with antibiotic.
1993	The transformed cells showed a similar parasitaemic profile in both phleomycin treated and untreated mice.
1993	In contrast, untransformed bloodstream trypanosomes were unable to grow in mice treated with this concentration of antibiotic.
1993	Analysis in cell lines and transgenic mice using a combination of these sites has revealed the presence of a conserved element(s) between -300bp and -190bp which is required for neuronal-specific expression.
1993	Expression of NFs occurs as early as 9-10 days of gestation in the mouse central and peripheral nervous system and coincides with the appearance of postmitotic neurons (2).
1993	To assess the role of some of these hypersensitive sites, the expression of a number of deletion constructs have been analysed both in cells and transgenic mice.
1993	These experiments demonstrate the presence of a brain-specific element(s) between -300bp and -190bp relative to the cap site which is conserved between the human and mouse genes.
1993	Transgenic mice: DNA and RNA analysis
1993	DNA fragments containing human NF-L gene were isolated free from vector sequences by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis and injected into pronuclei of fertilized oocytes from (CBA C57BL/10) F1 mice at a concentration of 1-2 µg/ml of TE buffer (10mM Tris (pH7.5), 0.2mM EDTA).
1993	In all the analyses the presence of human NF-L DNA in the offspring of the founder mice was determined by Southern blot analysis (19) of DNA extracted from the tails or in the case of younger mice either placenta or liver.
1993	Mixed probes (a 350bp RsaI 5' human NF-L and a 270bp XmaI 5' mouse NF-H) were used to detect correctly initiated transcripts from the transgene as well as the endogenous mouse NF-H RNA.
1993	To control for possible differences in the brain RNA levels, a 5' end-labelled mouse NF-H (m-NF-H) probe was used which gives a protected fragment of 160nt.
1993	Based on the location of DNase I hypersensitivity sites and sequence homology to the promoter of the mouse NF-L gene (20) a number of deletions of the human NF-L gene were cloned in pUC and tested by transfection in HeLa cells (figure 2).
1993	Expression analysis in transgenic mice
1993	Because the effects observed in the C1300 cells were small we decided to analyse the effect of the promoter deletions which had the most pronounced effects in cell culture in transgenic mice.
1993	A similar result has been reported for mice bearing a transgene of 2.3kb of the 5' flanking sequences linked to a CAT gene (27).
1993	To check for a developmental role for these hypersensitive sites, the presence of the transgene was tested in newborn mice and where it was shown to be expressed (data not shown).
1993	We next generated transgenic mice for a deletion containing only 55bp of the promoter linked to the rest of the gene.
1993	It is clear that -55bp H-NF-L construct is not expressed in the brain or any other tissues examined even when it is present in multiple copies (mouse *1 carries 5 copies, data not shown).
1993	We then tested four transgenic mice containing the -300bp promoter which contains HS3, but not HS1 and HS2 (figure 5).
1993	This construct is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in all mice examined, with the exception of mouse 13 which shows ectopic expression in the kidney and thymus.
1993	This indicates that the transcriptional activity of the transgenic mice is not reflected in the methylation state of the transgenes.
1993	We also examined the expression of -300bp deletion construct in younger mice using the NF-H gene as a control.
1993	Newborn mice from transgenic line 6 were examined for HNF-L expression by S1 nuclease protection assay and were shown to express the transgene in brain (figure 5).
1993	The lower intensity signal of the control mouse NF-H gene relative to that of the NF-L transgene when compared to the two month old mice is consistant with the known early expression of NF-L during development.
1993	We obtained three transgenic mice.
1993	Only two of these mice expressed the transgene in the brain, but at very reduced levels relative to those observed for the -300bp mice (figure 6).
1993	Ectopic HNF-L expression was also detected in both mice.
1993	Two transgenic mice were obtained of which only the one carrying two copies of the gene could be established as a line.
1993	This line was bred and total brain RNA was analysed from a two month old transgenic mouse and 9 day embryos by S1 nuclease protection (figure 7).
1993	It has been shown for the murine NF-L gene, that 1.5kb of the sequence upstream of the transcriptional start site is sufficient to yield brain-specific expression of the homologous gene (29) as well as heterologous genes (30) in transgenic mice.
1993	Further promoter deletions have not been analysed for the murine NF-L gene to permit a functional comparison to be made of the minimal regulatory sequences that are needed for neuronal-specific expression in human and mouse genes.
1993	Using large fragments of flanking sequences, brain-specific expression has been observed for a number of neuronal-specific genes in transgenic mice (31,32,33,34,28), including the HF-H gene (35).
1993	Analysis of neural-specific SCG10 promoter sequences fused to a marker gene in transgenic mice (36) as well as cell lines (37) has identified a silencer element in the 5' flanking sequences.
1993	We have studied the possible in vivo role of the hypersensitive sites of the human NF-L gene by analysing the expression pattern of a series of deletion constructs in transgenic mice and cultured cells.
1993	Using transient transfections, negative regulatory regions were found between -325 and -925 in the mouse NF-L gene as well as upstream regions of the murine NF-M and NF-H genes that suppressed transcription in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells (26).
1993	Although the expression level in the transgenic mice cannot be strictly quantitated as a function of copy number, the average expression per copy of the transgene is higher with the -300bp promoter than with the -2300bp promoter.
1993	When the human NF-L promoter is deleted from -300bp to -190bp there is a clear negative effect on neuronal expression of the gene both in transgenic mice and the cell cultures.
1993	Sequence comparison reveals a high degree of homology between the mouse and the human NF-L gene in the region between -300bp and -190bp (over 65%, figure 8).
1993	However, the -55bp promoter is not expressed in transgenic mice indicating that there are no downstream elements capable of driving minimal expression.
1993	Human NF-L deletion constructs (see figure 2) were co-transfected with a human Thy-1 construct into mouse C1300 neuroblastoma cells by the calcium phosphate precipitation method.
1993	Analysis of a -2300bp human NF-L promoter deletion in adult transgenic mouse lines.
1993	Various lines of transgenic mice bearing the -2300 bp human NF-l promoter deletion construct were established as described in Materials and Methods.
1993	Total RNA was prepared from various tissues of two month old offspring from transgenic mice lines 6, 13, 1 and 14, as well as an aged-matched non-transgenic (N-Tg) mouse.
1993	40 µg of RNA was hybridised with a mixture of two probes:i) a 350bp RsaI end-labelled 5' human NF-L (HNF-L) to detect the transgene and ii) a 270bp XmaI end-labelled 5' mouse NF-H (MNF-H) probe to correct for possible differences in the mRNA levels.
1993	Expression analysis of -300bp and -55bp human NF-L promoter deletions in transgenic mice.
1993	Total RNA was prepared from several tissues of five transgenic mouse lines 1, 7, 8, 9 and 16 carrying the -55bp promoter deletion as well as four transgenic mouse lines 6, 12, 13, and 20 carrying the -300bp deletion.
1993	Positions of protected bands of 160nt for the mouse NF-H (mNF-H) and 121nt for the transgene (HNF-L) as well as the reannealed input probes are indicated by arrows.
1993	Extreme right: S1 nuclease protection was performed on RNA isolated from various tissues of a two month old transgenic mouse (-300 deletion line 6) and its newborn offspring (a, b and c) as described in figure 4.
1993	Newborn mice b and c carry the transgene, but mouse a does not contain the transgene (data not shown) and therefore serves as an additional negative control for transgene expression.
1993	nTg RNA from various tissues of an age-matched non-transgenic newborn mouse was also analysed.
1993	Analysis of -190bp human NF-L promoter deletion in transgenic mice.
1993	Three transgenic lines of mice bearing the -190 human NF-l promoter deletion (lines 1, 6 and 18) were established and the expression of the transgene in these lines was examined as described in figure 5.
1993	Other controls include RNA isolated from tissues of an age-matched non-transgenic mouse brain RNA designated nTgB.
1993	Analysis of -300bp human NF-L promoter deletion lacking the first intron hypersensitive sites (HS5A and HS5B) in adult and embryonic stage trangenic mice.
1993	A transgenic mouse line bearing a construct consisting of the -300 NF-L promoter deletion as well as an internal Bal1-Stu1 first intron deletion was established.
1993	A total of 8 nine day (E9) embryo offspring from a mating between a transgenic heterozygote and wild type mouse were dissected and RNA was prepared from the head regions.
1993	Comparison of human and mouse NF-L promoter regions.
1993	The sequence of the human NF-l promoter in the region of -300 to -180 was compared to the homologous region in the mouse gene.
0000	Now I smelt a mice then you see, I I my own personal thoughts were, What's what's the idea of appointing instead of a a real go ahead executive member, why did they put him in.
1985	Oh I tell you what    we used to have a dresser like this in front of of of a of a h of a of a  at home and er mother used to make a a jelly and she used to put it underneath the dresser and put a plate on on top of it in case the mice would get it.
1989	No rat droppings — or were they mouse droppings — under the sink.
1990	This had been assisted by the existence in abundance of certain forms of animal life in the foundations: ants, cockroaches and flies had done their bit, but the mice and rats had had their flesh encounters too.
1990	He was already beginning to think of Jordan as a kind of spiritual weevil or mouse in his woodwork.
1990	Not a mouse in the woodwork, or a spiritual weevil, Coffin decided as he put the receiver down, but the voice of conscience.
1990	‘Mouse droppings,’ said Phil Jordan succinctly.
1990	The mouse lives with us, you know.’
1990	Belmodes was probably alive with mice.
1990	‘As well as the mouse droppings there was a dead housefly caught up in the clothing.
1990	Slugs as well as mice at Belmodes, probably.
1990	No doubt an acute team of forensic scientists, skilled in the right disciplines, could distinguish between the mice and slugs of Belmodes and those of Mouncy Street and Rose Hilaire's pad.
1990	As though the mice had been at it.
1990	In summary, to compare t treatments, we require a number of blocks each consisting of t experimental units; for one reason or another the units within each block are expected to behave reasonably similarly in the absence of any treatment, e.g. t mice from the same litter, t plots in the same area of a field.
1993	shells disinter the bodies, then reinter them, chop them to pieces, play with them as a cat plays with a mouse.
1993	He followed the trend into feature-length films and directed One Million BC and produced Of Mice and Men.
0000	MOUSE SITTER
1991	At Total Oil in St FErgus, near Aberdeen, manager Yan Szczesnowicz had his staff dress up as anything from Mickey Mouse to Bart Simpson, with a few american indians, the cavalry and Uncle Sam thrown in.
0000	While is has smart Windows menus, it also provides an old-style menu system for those who can't get used to using a mouse.
1991	‘Of Mice and Men’ POEM
1991	Critical Essay ‘Of Mice and Men’ GEORGE
1991	He shouted and swore when Lennie carried a dead mouse in his pocket pet and he gave Lennie a very hard time when Lennie said that he like ketchup on his beans.
1991	I wisht I could put you in a cage with about a million mice and let you have fun.’
1991	This all springs from an argument about a mouse which Lennie killed accidentally and wanted to keep.
1991	George took the mouse and threw it away.
1991	‘I'd pet (the mice)‘em, and pretty soon they bit my fingers and I pinched their heads a little and then they were dead — because they were so little’
1993	Virtual Personal Computing — the attractive use of graphics, colour, sound and the ‘mouse’ which have eased the acceptance of AppleMacs and PCs at this University, have been built upon the high bandwidth once only available between components of a single personal computer.
1993	Now Joyce likes cats, but is alarmed by small animals which move fast and appear unexpectedly (this is how she described the mouse which recently terrorised her).
1993	Around the cats and mice?
1992	Yeah, ultimately they might wanna  end up with erm  a mouse driver high but  it's alright.
1992	Mickey Mouse was there and they had their photographs took with Mickey Mouse
1992	Mini Mouse
1992	And Mini Mouse
1991	Little mouse has come to say hello and welcome us to the animal show.
1991	Little mouse has come to say hello  you gotta read this side.
1991	Little mouse has come to say hello
1991	which balloon has the mouse let go off and you have to follow them.
1992	Ha, did you see the cat carry a mouse across ?
1991	There's a mouse in the house  cheese  only cheese.
1992	Have you got your mouse?
1992	Mouse?
1992	Timmy the catcher mouse was a little black cat.
1992	Timmy the catcher mouse was a very long name for a very little cat so everyone called him  Tim.
1992	Mice under each foot, front feet and two in her mouth.
1992	when you life them up, well of course the they've seen so many mice, she grabbed two in that  mouth straight away and two  and as they were going up she grabbed
1992	Oh well of course, it's paradise for mice isn't it
1992	Well it weren't exactly the school teacher's fault cos  Panda jumped out of the hedge into the lights from the cemetery cos she liked to go mousing up there.
1992	Yes, where erm  my next neighbour gave me  some stuff erm, then I went into her shed cos she had  erm, some mice problems so dad went in there to  have a look round, seeing the poison were  wore off and we found  quite a lot of old gardening chu , tools.
1992	The pair of white mice are funny aren't they?
1992	Oh,Cilla Black  met Mickey Mouse yesterday  and the excited scouse laughed!
1992	Put on a pair of Mickey Mouse ears for the occasion.
1992	Oh it were to tell him that dinner were ready  and there's this cheeky little mouse sat on top  dinner, and he ain't half eaten it
1992	and you can move the arrow and the cursor, that's it an arrow and a mouse you just hit it and it expands that bit
1991	What is the point of mouse ?
1991	Makes it  pretty it  improves it's just a mou , you know mouse mat you got them at school.
1991	How do you know I've got mouse mays at school?
1991	Yes you have, you know what you run your mouses along!
1991	You haven't got one  y know, quite cheap just mats that they  they  ah I've got forgotten what the word is for it  they make the mouse  improves the performance of the mouse  see
1992	Oh you brought your pussy cat did you, didn't you bring your Mickey Mouses?
1992	what they use up the school a proper computers, the screens and printouts and mouses and
1992	Might be Mickey Mouse, is he got on?
1992	Might be Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse and
1992	Hickory, hickory dock, the mouse ran up the clock, the clock struck one, down the mouse run, hickory, tickery dock, tick tock
1992	Erm, I know  three blind mice, three blind mice, three blind mice, see how they run, see how they run, they all run after the farmer's wife, he cut off their tails with a carving knife, have you ever seen such a thing in your life, three blind mice
1992	Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been, I've been to London to visit the king, pussy cat, pussy cat what were you there, I frightened a little mouse under the chair
1992	got something though, stand up, I know a song now, I've got a song   Hickory hickory dock, the mouse did run up the clock, the clock struck one, what do you think of that, hickory, hickory dock, tick tock  there are, I know that one, er, get a drink
1992	and Mickey mice  and mouses or
1992	While the  cat's away the mice will play!
1991	Did you watch Of Mice And Men
1991	That's a mouse, isn't it?
1992	Or Mickey Mouse, yes  it just depends on the, the metals used in it, the jewellery on it, the movement
1992	like Russell mouse, Russell
1992	mouse does more damage than Puddy
1992	little mouse  the apron
1992	Do you like Danger Mouse ?
1992	Yes I love Danger Mouse!
1994	Going back, we're jumping back and forth in history, this is all sort of fairly mickey mouse history really, it's just erm isolated observations and bits of information.
0000	does mice have, nut, nutty b , nutty nut
0000	so he goes oh what the hell and they shovel tea down him and erm he starts throwing up and, what happened is that when he, when he gets like cut down they ta take him back to the room and they put them in their boxer shorts just sitting there and they've wired up a mouse trap to like their their
0000	and he goes why were you in my, why am I in my underwear  seen my pants and he goes ah, here's a message on my knee and he goes P S Sue Carpenter and they look at each other and they go, Sue Carpenter whoooo and then the mouse traps go off and it ends with them going
0000	he got knackered did he, by the mouse trap?
1991	There's the mouse.
1991	There's the mouse in the house.
0000	It's like that mouse, that, that finger mouse.
0000	do you watch that finger mouse?
0000	Hey diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle, Hickory Dickory dock the mouse ran up the clock, one, two, three, four, five, once I caught a fish alive, just those,three times
1992	Mickey Mouse
1992	I like Minnie Mouse cos I've got some shoes like her.
1992	Got me Minnie Mouse shoes on, ain't I?
0000	Well I think in common with most local authorities we've been playing a sort of cat and mouse game with Central Government over the last ten years, where we have attempted to continue to deliver the services that we believe we've been elected to deliver, and Central Government has been trying to close off what it would see as loopholes and gain control of us and stop us doing what it doesn't want us to do, but of course it's a rather unequal struggle and the cat and mouse analogy is quite a good one in that Central Government has all the power and is able to erm take control of us to the extent now that the budget that both the City and the County Council have set for the coming year has effectively been set by Central Government.
0000	This one's rubbish, look, amega five hundred   with mouse and joy-stick, all leads, modulator, no games, hundred and twenty-five pound.
0000	I didn't give them my mouse, er, I gave 'em the mouse but no joy-stick.
0000	Amega five hundred, half meg, includes mouse, joy-stick, ten copied games, he's actually writ it.
0000	No, and Mickey Mouse and Castle of Indians.
0000	Erm  and then you got   Magical Quest, Mickey Mouse.
1993	but  yeah, but the thing is you're gonna get someone saying  Mickey, Mickey Mouse or whoever it is,so , you know someone who doesn't wanna stand  someone who hasn't been asked.
1992	and you sound like Mickey Mouse, ha!
